
No.  102



AFGHANISTAN, AUSTRALIA, BELGIUM,

BOLIVIA, BRAZIL, etc.

Convention on International Civil Aviation. Signed at Chi cago, on 7 December 1944
\	'	'

.English official text1 communicated by the Permanent Representative of the United States of America at the seat of the United Nations. The filing and recording took place on 19 April 1948.









AFGHANISTAN, AUSTRALIE, BELGIQUE,

BOLIVIE, BRESIL, etc.

Convention relative à l'Aviation civile internationale. Signée à Chicago, le 7 décembre 1944

Texte officiel anglais1 communiqué par le représentant permanent des Etats-Unis d'Amérique au siège de l'Organisation des Nations Unies. Le classement et l'inscription au répertoire ont eu lieu le 19 avril 1948.









1 See explanatory note (*), page 362, con-cerning the official languages of the Con-vention.








1 Voir note explicative (1 ), page 363, con cernant les langues officielles de la Conven-tion.

296	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948



No. 102. CONVENTION1 ON INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVI ATION. SIGNED AT CHICAGO, ON 7 DECEMBER 1944



PREAMBLE

WHEREAS the future development of international civil aviation can greatly help to create and preserve friendship and understanding among the nations and peoples of the world, yet its abuse can become a threat to the general security; and

WHEREAS it is desirable to avoid friction and to promote that cooperation between nations and peoples upon which the peace of the world depends;

THEREFORE, the undersigned governments having agreed on certain prin ciples and arrangements in order that international civil aviation may be developed in a safe and orderly manner and that international air transport services may be established on the basis of equality of opportunity and operated soundly and economically;

Have accordingly concluded this Convention to that end.



PART I.	AIR NAVIGATION

CHAPTER I

GENERAL PRINCIPLES AND APPLICATION OF THE CONVENTION

Article 1

Sovereignty

The contracting States recognize that every State has complete and exclusive sovereignty over the airspace above its territory.

*Came into force on 4 April 1947, the thirtieth day after deposit with the Government of the United States of America of the twenty-sixth instrument of ratification thereof or notification of adherence thereto, in accordance with article 91 (b). For the list of State» Parties to the Convention, see page 372.

298_________United Nations —Treaty Series______	1948

Article 2
Territory

For the purposes of this Convention the territory of a State shall be deemed to be the land areas and territorial waters adjacent thereto under the sovereignty, suzerainty, protection or mandate of such State.

Article 3

Civil and state aircraft

(a)This Convention shall be applicable only to civil aircraft, and shall not be applicable to state aircraft.

(6)Aircraft used in military, customs and police services shall be deemed to be state aircraft.

(c)No state aircraft of a contracting State shall fly over the territory of another State or land thereon without authorization by special agreement or otherwise, and in accordance with the terms thereof.

(d)The contracting States undertake, when issuing regulations for their state aircraft, that they will have due regard for the safety of navigation of civil aircraft.

Article 4

Misuse of civil aviation

Each contracting State agrees not to use civil aviation for any purpose inconsistent with the aims of this Convention.



CHAPTER n

FLIGHT OVER TERRITORY OF CONTRACTING STATES

Article 5

Right of non-scheduled flight

Each contracting State agrees that all aircraft of the other contracting States, being aircraft not engaged in scheduled international air services shall have the right, subject to the observance of the terms of this Convention, to make flights into or in transit non-stop across its territory and to make stops for non-traffic purposes without the necessity of obtaining prior permission, and subject to the right of the State flown over to require landing. Each con tracting State nevertheless reserves the right, for reasons of safety of flight, to


No.  102

300	United Nations —Treaty Series	1948


require aircraft desiring to proceed over regions which are inaccessible or without adequate air navigation facilities to follow prescribed routes, or to obtain special permission for such flights.

Such aircraft, if engaged in the carriage of passengers, cargo, or mail for remuneration or hire on other than scheduled international air services, shall also, subject to the provisions of Article 7, have the privilege of taking on or discharging passengers, cargo, mail, subject to the right of any State where such embarkation or discharge takes place to impose such regulations, conditions or limitations at it may consider desirable.


Article 6

Scheduled air services

No scheduled international air service may be operated over or into the territory of a contracting State, except with the special permission or other authorization of that State, and in accordance with the terms of such permission or authorization.

Article 7

Cabotage

Each contracting State shall have the right to refuse permission to the aircraft of other contracting States to take on in its territory passengers, mail and cargo carried for remuneration or hire and destined for another point within its terri tory. Each contracting State undertakes not to enter into any arrangements which specifically grant any such privilege on an exclusive basis to any other State or an airline of any other State, and not to obtain any such exclusive privilege from any other State.




Article 8

Pilotless aircraft

No aircraft capable of being flown without a pilot shall be flown without a pilot over the territory of a contracting State without special authorization by that State and in accordance with the terms of such authorization. Each con tracting State undertakes to insure that the flight of such aircraft without a pilot in regions open to civil aircraft shall be so controlled as to obviate danger to civil aircraft.


No. 102

302
United Nations — Treaty Series
1948
.  ..,
Article 9

Prohibited areas



(a)Each contracting State may, for reasons of military necessity or public safety, restrict or prohibit uniformly the aircraft of other States from flying over certain areas of its territory, provided that no distinction in this respect is made between the aircraft of the State whose territory is involved, engaged in inter national scheduled airline services, and the aircraft of the other contracting States likewise engaged. Such prohibited areas shall be of reasonable extent and location so as not to interfere unnecessarily with air navigation. Descriptions of such prohibited areas in the territory of a contracting State, as well as any subsequent alterations therein, shall be communicated as soon as possible to the other contracting States and to the International Civil Aviation Organization.



(6)Each contracting State reserves also the right, in exceptional circum stances or during a period of emergency, or in the interest of public safety, and with immediate effect, temporarily to restrict or prohibit flying over the whole or any part of its territory, on condition that such restriction or prohibition shall be applicable without distinction of nationality to aircraft of all other States.


(c)Each contracting State, under such regulations as it may prescribe, may require any aircraft entering the areas contemplated in subparagraphs (a) or (fe) above to effect a landing as soon as practicable thereafter at some designated airport within its territory.

Article 10

Landing at customs airport

Except in a case where, under the terms of this Convention or a special authorization, aircraft are permitted to cross the territory of a contracting State without landing, every aircraft which enters the territory of a contracting State shall, if the regulations of that State so require, land at an airport designated by that State for the purpose of customs and other examination. On departure from the territory of a contracting State, such aircraft shall depart from a simi larly designated customs airport. Particulars of all designated customs airports shall be published by the State and transmitted to the International Civil Aviation Organization established under Part II of this Convention for com munication to all other contracting States.


No.	102

304_________United Nations —Treaty Series________1948

Article 11

Applicability of air regulations

Subject to the provisions of this Convention, the laws and regulations of a contracting State relating to the admission to or departure from its territory of aircraft engaged in international air navigation, or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft while within its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of all contracting States without distinction as to nationality, and shall be complied with by such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within the territory of that State.

Article 12
Rules of the air

Each contracting State undertakes to adopt measures to insure that every aircraft flying over or maneuvering within its territory and that every aircraft carrying its nationality mark, wherever such aircraft may be, shall comply with the rules and regulations relating to the flight and maneuver of aircraft there in force. Each contracting State undertakes to keep its own regulations in these respects uniform, to the greatest possible extent, with those established from time to time under this Convention. Over the high seas, the rules in force shall be those established under this Convention. Each contracting State undertakes to insure the prosecution of all persons violating the regulations applicable.


Article 13

Entry and clearance regulations

The laws and regulations of a contracting State as to the admission to or departure from its territory of passengers, crew or cargo of aircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration, passports, customs, and quarantine shall be complied with by or on behalf of such passengers, crew or cargo upon entrance into or departure from, or while within the territory of that State.

Article 14

Prevention of spread of disease

Each contracting State agrees to take effective measures to prevent the spread by means of air navigation of cholera, typhus (epidemic), smallpox, yellow fever, plague, and such other communicable diseases as the contracting States shall from time to time decide to designate, and to that end contracting States will keep in close consultation with the agencies concerned with inter-

No. 102

306	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


national regulations relating to sanitary measures applicable to aircraft. Such consultation shall be without prejudice to the application of any existing inter national convention on this subject to which the contracting States may be parties.

Article 15

Airport and similar charges

Every airport in a contracting State which is open to public use by its national aircraft shall likewise, subject to the provisions of Article 68, be open under uniform conditions to the aircraft of all the other contracting States. The like uniform conditions shall apply to the use, by aircraft of every con tracting State, of all air navigation facilities, including radio and meteorological services, which may be provided for public use for the safety and expedition of air navigation.

Any charges that may be imposed or permitted to be imposed by a con tracting State for the use of such airports and air navigation facilities by the aircraft of any other contracting State shall not be higher,

(a)As to aircraft not engaged in scheduled international air services, than those that would be paid by its national aircraft of the same class engaged in similar operations, and

(b)As to aircraft engaged in scheduled international air services, than those that would be paid by its national aircraft engaged in similar international air services.

All such charges shall be published and communicated to the International Civil Aviation Organization : provided that, upon representation by an interested contracting State, the charges imposed for the use of airports and other facilities shall be subject to review by the Council, which shall report and make recom mendations thereon for the consideration of the State or States concerned. No fees, dues or other charges shall be imposed by any contracting State in respect solely of the right of transit over or entry into or exit from its territory of any aircraft of a contracting State or persons or property thereon.


Article 16

Search of Aircraft

The appropriate authorities of each of the contracting States shall have the right, without unreasonable delay, to search aircraft of the other contracting States on landing or departure, and to inspect the certificates and other docu ments prescribed by this Convention.


No.	102

308	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


CHAPTER m

NATIONALITY OF AIRCRAFT


Article 17

Nationality of aircraft

Aircraft have the nationality of the State in which they are registered.

Article 18

Dual registration

An aircraft cannot be validly registered in more than one State, but its registration may be changed from one State to another.

Article 19

National laws governing registration

The registration or transfer of registration of aircraft in any contracting State shall be made in accordance with its laws and regulations.

Article 20

Display of marks

Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear its appro priate nationality and registration marks.

Article 21

Report of registrations

Each contracting State undertakes to supply to any other contracting State or to the International Civil Aviation Organization, on demand, information concerning the registration and ownership of any particular aircraft registered in that State. In addition, each contracting State shall furnish reports to the International Civil Aviation Organization, under such regulations as the latter may prescribe, giving such pertinent data as can be made available concerning the ownership and control of aircraft registered in that State and habitually engaged in international air navigation. The data thus obtained by the Inter national Civil Aviation Organization shall be made available by it on request to the other contracting States.


No. 102

310________ United Nations — Treaty Series
1948

CHAPTER IV

MEASURES TO FACILITATE AIR NAVIGATION

Article 22

Facilitation of formalities

Each contracting State agrees to adopt all practicable measures, through the issuance of special regulations or otherwise, to facilitate and expedite navi gation by aircraft between the territories of contracting States, and to prevent unnecessary delays to aircraft, crews, passengers and cargo, especially in the administration of the laws relating to immigration, quarantine, customs and clearance.

Article 23

Customs and immigration procedures

Each contracting State undertakes, so far as it may find practicable, to establish customs and immigration procedures affecting international air navi gation in accordance with the practices which may be established or recom mended from time to time, pursuant to this Convention. Nothing in this Convention shall be construed as preventing the establishment of customs-free airports.

Article 24

Customs duty

(a)Aircraft on a flight to, from, or across the territory of another con tracting State shall be admitted temporarily free of duty, subject to the customs regulations of the State. Fuel, lubricating oils, spare parts, regular equipment and aircraft stores on board an aircraft of a contracting State, on arrival in the territory of another contracting State and retained on board on leaving the territory of that State shall be exempt from customs duty, inspection fees or similar national or local duties and charges. This exemption shall not apply to any quantities or articles unloaded, except in accordance with the customs regulations of the State, which may require that they shall be kept under customs supervision.




(b)Spare parts and equipment imported into the territory of a contracting State for incorporation in or use on an aircraft of another contracting State


No. 102

312	United Nations	Treaty Series	1948


engaged in international air navigation shall be admitted free of customs duty, subject to compliance with the regulations of the State concerned, which may provide that the articles shall be kept under customs supervision and control.


Article 25

Aircraft in distress

Each contracting State undertakes to provide such measures of assistance to aircraft in distress hi its territory as it may find practicable, and to permit, subject to control by its own authorities, the owners of the aircraft or authori ties of the State in which the aircraft is registered to provide such measures of assistance as may be necessitated by the circumstances. Each contracting State, when undertaking search for missing aircraft, will collaborate in coordinated measures which may be recommended from time to time pursuant to this Convention.

Article 26

Investigation of accidents

In the event of an accident to an aircraft of a contracting State occurring in the territory of another contracting State, and involving death or serious injury, or indicating serious technical defect in the aircraft or air navigation facilities, the State in which the accident occurs will institute an inquiry into the circumstances of the accident, in accordance, so far as its laws permit, with the procedure which may be recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organization. The State in which the aircraft is registered shall be given the opportunity to appoint observers to be present at the inquiry and the State holding the inquiry shall communicate the report and findings in the matter to that State.

Article 27

Exemption from seizure on patent claims

(a)While engaged in international air navigation, any authorized entry of aircraft of a contracting State into the territory of another contracting State or authorized transit across the territory of such State with or without landings shall not entail any seizure or detention of the aircraft or any claim against the owner or operator thereof or any other intereference therewith by or on behalf of such State or any person therein, on the ground that the construction, mecha nism, parts, accessories or operation of the aircraft is an infringement of any patent, design, or model duly granted or registered in the State whose territory is entered by the aircraft, it being agreed that no deposit of security in con-

No. 102

314	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


nection with the foregoing exemption from seizure or detention of the aircraft shall in any case be required in the State entered by such aircraft.


(6)The provisions of paragraph (a) of this Article shall also be applicable to the storage of spare parts and spare equipment for the aircraft and the right to use and install the same in the repair of an aircraft of a contracting State in the territory of any other contracting State, provided that any patented part or equipment so stored shall not be sold or distributed internally in or exported commercially from the contracting State entered by the aircraft.


(c)The benefits of this Article shall apply only to such States, parties to this Convention, as either (1) are parties to the International Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property and to any amendments thereof; or (2) have enacted patent laws which recognize and give adequate protection to inventions made by the nationals of the other States parties to this Convention.



Article 28

Air navigation facilities and standard systems

Each contracting State undertakes, so far as it may find practicable, to:

(a)Provide, in its territory, airports, radio services, meteorological services and other air navigation facilities to facilitate international air navigation, in accordance with the standards and practices recommended or established from time to time, pursuant to this Convention;


(b)Adopt and put into operation the appropriate standard systems of communications procedure, codes, markings, signals, lighting and other operational practices and rules which may be recommended or established from time to time, pursuant to this Convention;


(c)CoDaborate in international measures to secure the publication of aeronautical maps and charts in accordance with standards which may be recommended or established from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.


No.	102

316	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


CHAPTER V

CONDITIONS TO BE FULFILLED WITH RESPECT TO AIRCRAFT

Article 29

Documents carried in aircraft

Every aircraft of a contracting State, engaged in international navigation, shall carry the following documents in conformity with the conditions prescribed in this Convention :

(a)Its certificate of registration;

(b)Its certificate of airworthiness;

(c)The appropriate licenses for each member of the crew; ( d) Its journey log book;

(e)If it is equipped with radio apparatus, the aircraft radio station

license;

(/)If it carries passengers, a list of their names and places of embarka tion and destination;

(g)If  it  carries  cargo,  a  manifest  and  detailed  declarations  of  the

cargo.

Article 30
Aircraft radio equipment

(a)Aircraft of each contracting State may, in or over the territory of other contracting States, carry radio transmitting apparatus only if a license to install and operate such apparatus has been issued by the appropriate authorities of the State in which the aircraft is registered. The use of radio transmitting apparatus in the territory of the contracting State whose territory is flown over shall be in accordance with the regulations prescribed by that State.

(b)Radio transmitting apparatus may be used only by members of the flight crew who are provided with a special license for the purpose, issued by the appropriate authorities of the State in which the aircraft is registered.

Article 31
Certificates of airworthiness

Every aircraft engaged in international navigation shall be provided with a certificate of airworthiness issued or rendered valid by the State in which it is registered.


No. 102

318	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948

Article 32

Licenses of personnel

(a)The pilot of every aircraft and the other members of the operating crew of every aircraft engaged in international navigation shall be provided with certificates of competency and licenses issued or rendered valid by the State in which the aircraft is registered.

(b)Each contracting State reserves the right to refuse to recognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory, certificates of competency and licenses granted to any of its nationals by another contracting State.

Article 33

Recognition of certificates and licenses

Certificates of airworthiness and certificates of competency and licenses issued or rendered valid by the contracting State in which the aircraft is registered, shall be recognized as valid by the other contracting States, provided that the requirements under which such certificates or licenses were issued or rendered valid are equal to or above the minimum standards which may be established from time to time pursuant to this Convention.

Article 34

Journey log books

There shall be maintained in respect of every aircraft engaged in inter national navigation a journey log book in which shall be entered particulars of the aircraft, its crew and of each journey, in such form as may be prescribed from time to time pursuant to this Convention.

Article 35

Cargo restrictions

(a)No munitions of war or implements of war may be carried in or above the territory of a State in aircraft engaged in international navigation, except by permission of such State. Each State shall determine by regulations what con stitutes munitions of war or implements of war for the purposes of this Article, giving due consideration, for the purposes of uniformity, to such recommenda tions as the International Civil Aviation Organization may from time to time make.

(b)Each contracting State reserves the right, for reasons of public order and safety, to regulate or prohibit the carriage in or above its territory of articles other than those enumerated in paragraph (a) : provided that no dis tinction is made in this respect between its national aircraft engaged in inter-

No. 102

320	United Nations —Treaty Series	1948


national navigation and the aircraft of the other States so engaged; and provided further that no restriction shall be imposed which may interfere with the carriage and use on aircraft of apparatus necessary for the operation or navigation of the aircraft or the safety of the personnel or passengers.


Article 36

Photographic apparatus

Each contracting State may prohibit or regulate the use of photographic apparatus in aircraft over its territory.



CHAPTER VT

INTERNATIONAL	STADARDS	AND  RECOMMENDED	PRACTICES

Article 37

Adoption of international standards and procedures

Each contracting State undertakes to collaborate in securing the highest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations, standards, procedures, and organization in relation to aircraft, personnel, airways and auxiliary services in all matters in which such uniformity will facilitate and improve air navigation.

To this end the International Civil Aviation Organization shall adopt and amend from tune time, as may be necessary, international standards and recom mended practices and procedures dealing with :

(a)Communications systems and air navigation aids, including ground
marking;

(6)Characteristics of airports and landing areas;

(c)Rules of the air and air traffic control practices;

(d)Licensing of operating and mechanical personnel;

(e)Airworthiness of aircraft;

(/)	Registration and identification of aircraft;

(g)Collection and exchange of meteorological information;

(h)Log books;


No. 102

322	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


(*")	Aeronautical maps and charts;

(;')	Customs and immigration procedures;

(k)Aircraft in distress and investigation of accidents;

and such other matters concerned with the safety, regularity, and efficiency of air navigation as may from time to time appear appropriate.

Article 38

Departures from international standards and procedures

Any State which finds it impracticable to comply in all respects with any such international standards or procedure, or to bring its own regulations or practices into full accord with any international standard or procedure after amendment of the latter, or which deems it necessary to adopt regulations or practices differing in any particular respect from those established by an inter national standard, shall give immediate notification to the International Civil Aviation Organization of the differences between its own practice and that established by the international standard. In the case of amendments to inter national standards, any State which does not make the appropriate amendments to its own regulations or practices shall give notice to the Council within sixty days of the adoption of the amendment to the international standard, or indicate the action which it proposes to take. In any such case, the Council shall make immediate notification to all other States of the difference which exists between one or more features of an international standard and the corresponding national practice of that State.

Article 39

Endorsement of certificates and licenses

(a)Any aircraft or part thereof with respect to which there exists an inter national standard of airworthiness or performance, and which failed in any respect to satisfy that standard at the time of its certification, shall have endorsed on or attached to its airworthiness certificate a complete enumeration of the details in respect of which it so failed.

(b)Any person holding a license who does not satisfy in full the conditions laid down in the international standard relating to the class of license or certificate which he holds shall have endorsed on or attached to his license a complete enumeration of the particulars in which he does not satisfy such conditions.


No.  102

324_________ United Nations — Treaty Series
1948

Article 40

Validity of endorsed certificates and licenses

No aircraft or personnel having certificates or licenses so endorsed shall participate in international navigation, except with the permission of the State or States whose territory is entered. The registration or use of any such aircraft, or of any certificated aircraft part, in any State other than that in which it was originally certificated shall be at the discretion of the State into which the aircraft or part is imported.

Article 41

Recognition of existing standards of airworthiness

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to aircraft and aircraft equip ment of types of which the prototype is submitted to the appropriate national authorities for certification prior to a date three years after the date of adoption of an international standard of airworthiness for such equipment.

Article 42

Recognition of existing standards of competency of personnel

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to personnel whose licenses are originally issued prior to a date one year after initial adoption of an inter national standard of qualification for such personnel; but they shall in any case apply to all personnel whose licenses remain valid five years after the date of adoption of such standard.


PART II.	THE INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION ORGANIZATION

CHAPTER VH

THE ORGANIZATION

Article 43

Name and composition

An organization to be named the International Civil Aviation Organization is formed by the Convention. It is made up of an Assembly, a Council, and such other bodies as may be necessary.


Ko. 102

326	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948

Article 44

Objectives

The aims and objectives of the Organization are to develop the principles and techniques of international air navigation and to foster the planning and development of international air transport so as to:


(a)Insure the safe and orderly growth of international civil aviation throughout the world;

(b)Encourage the arts of aircraft design and operation for peaceful

purposes;

(c)Encourage the development of airways, airports, and air navi gation facilities for international civil aviation;


(d]Meet the needs of the peoples of the world for safe, regular, efficient and economical air transport;

(e)Prevent economic waste caused by unreasonable competition;


(/)Insure that the rights of contracting States are fully respected and that every contracting State has a fair opportunity to operate inter national airlines;

(g)Avoid discrimination between contracting States;

(h)Promote safety of flight in international air navigation;


(i)Promote generally the development of all aspects of international civil aeronautics.

Article 45

Permanent seat

The permanent seat of the Organization shall be at such place as shall be determined at the final meeting of the Interim Assembly of the Provisional International Civil Aviation Organization set up by the Interim Agreement on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago on December 7, 1944. The seat may be temporarily transferred elsewhere by decision of the Council.


No.  102

328_________United Nations —Treaty Series________1948

Article 46

First meeting of Assembly

The first meeting of the Assembly shall be summoned by the Interim Council of the above-mentioned Provisional Organization as soon as the Con vention has come into force, to meet at a time and place to be decided by the Interim Council.

Article 47

Legal capacity

The Organization shall enjoy in the territory of each contracting State such legal capacity as may be necessary for the performance of its functions. Full juridical personality shall be granted wherever compatible with the constitution and laws of the State concerned.



CHAPTER VIII

THE ASSEMBLY

Article 48

Meetings of Assembly and voting

(a)The Assembly shall meet annually and shall be convened by the Council at a suitable time and place. Extraordinary meetings of the Assembly may be held at any time upon the call of the Council or at the request of any ten contracting States addressed to the Secretary General.

(fe) All contracting States shall have an equal right to be represented at the meetings of the Assembly and each contracting State shall be entitled to one vote. Delegates representing contracting States may be assisted by technical advisers who may participate in the meetings but shall have no vote.

(c)A majority of the contracting States is required to constitute a quorum for the meetings of the Assembly. Unless otherwise provided in this Convention, decisions of the Assembly shall be taken by a majority of the votes cast.

Article 49

Powers and duties of Assembly

The powers and duties of the Assembly shall be to:

(a)  Elect at each meeting its President and other officers;


No.  102

330_________United Nations —Treaty Series________1948


(b)Elect the contracting States to be represented on the Council, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter IX;

1(c) Examine and take appropriate action on the reports of the Council and decide on any matter referred to it by the Council;

!(d) Determine  its  own  rules  of  procedure  and  establish  such  sub

sidiary commissions as it may consider to be necessary or desirable;

'(0) Vote an annual budget and determine the financial arrangements of the Organization, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XII;

(/)Review expenditures and approve the accounts of the Organization;

:(g)  Refer, at its discretion, to the Council, to subsidiary commissions,
or to any other body any matter within its sphere of action;

1(h) Delegate to the Council the powers and authority necessary or desirable for the discharge of the duties of the Organization and revoke or modify the delegations of authority at any time;

;(/)  Carry out the appropriate provisions of Chapter XIII;

(;') Consider proposals for the modification or amendment of the provisions of this Convention and, if it approves of the proposals, recom mend them to the contracting States in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XXI;

(k)Deal with any matter within the sphere of action of the Organiza tion not specifically assigned to the Council.


CHAPTER EC

THE COUNCIL

Article 50

Composition and election of Council

(a)The Council shall be a permanent body responsible to the Assembly. It shall be composed of twenty-one contracting States elected by the Assembly. An election shall be held at the first meeting of the Assembly and thereafter every three years, and the members of the Council so elected shall hold office until the next following election.

(6)In electing the members of the Council, the Assembly shall give adequate representation to (1) the States of chief importance in air transport;

(2)the States not otherwise included which make the largest contribution to the


No. 102

332_________United Nations —Treaty Series________1948


provision of facilities for international civil air navigation; and (3) the States not otherwise included whose designation will insure that all major geographic areas of the world are represented on the Council. Any vacancy on the Council shall be filled by the Assembly as soon as possible; any contracting State so elected to the Council shall hold office for the unexpired portion of its predecessor's term of office.

(c)No representative of a contracting State on the Council shall be actively associated with the operation of an international air service or financially interested in such a service.

Article 51

President of Council

The Council shall elect its President for a term of three years. He may be reelected. He shall have no vote. The Council shall elect from among its members one or more Vice Presidents who shall retain their right to vote when serving as acting President. The President need not be selected from among the representatives of the members of the Council but, if a representative is elected, his seat shall be deemed vacant and it shall be filled by the State which he represented. The duties of the President shall be to:

(a)Convene meetings of the Council, the Air Transport Committee, and the Air Navigation Commission ;

(6)Serve as representative of the Council; and

(c)Carry out on behalf of the Council the functions which the Council assigns to him.

Article 52

Voting in Council

Decisions by the Council shall require approval by a majority of its members. The Council may delegate authority with respect to any particular matter to a committee of its members. Decisions of any committee of the Council may be appealed to the Council by any interested contracting State.

Article 53

Participation without a vote

Any contracting State may participate, without a vote, in the consideration by the Council and by its committees and commissions on any question which especially affects its interests. No member of the Council shall vote in the con sideration by the Council of a dispute to which it is a party.


No. 102

334	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948

Article 54

Mandatory functions of Council

The Council shall:

(a)Submit annual reports to the Assembly;

(b)Carry out the directions of the Assembly and discharge the duties and obligations which are laid on it by this Convention;

(c)Determine its organization and rules of procedure;

(d)Appoint and define the duties of an Air Transport Committee, which shall be chosen from among the representatives of the members of the Council, and which shall be responsible to it;

(e)Establish an Air Navigation Commission, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter X;

(/)Administer the finances of the Organization in accordance with the provisions of Chapters XII and XV;

(g)Determine the emoluments of the President of the Council;

(h)Appoint a chief executive officer who shall be called the Secretary General, and make provision for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XI;

(i)Request, collect, examine and publish information relating to the advancement of air navigation and the operation of international air services, including information about the costs of operation and particulars of sub sidies paid to airlines from public funds;

(;') Report to contracting States any infraction of this Convention, as well as any failure to carry out recommendations or determinations of the Council;

(k)Report to the Assembly any infraction of this Convention where a contracting State has failed to take appropriate action within a reasonable time after notice of the infraction;

(I)Adopt, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter VI of this Convention, international standards and recommended practices; for con venience, designate them as Annexes to this Convention; and notify all contracting States of the action taken;


No.  102

336	United Nations — Treaty Series________1948

(m)Consider recommendations of the Air Navigation Commission for amendment of the Annexes and take action in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XX;

(n)Consider any matter relating to the Convention which any con tracting State refers to it.

Article 55

Permissive functions of Council

The Council may:

(a)Where appropriate and as experience may show to be desirable, create subordinate air transport commissions on a regional or other basis and define groups of states or airlines with or through which it may deal to facilitate the carrying out of the aims of this Convention;

(b)Delegate to the Air Navigation Commission duties additional to those set forth in the Convention and revoke or modify such delegations of authority at any time;

(c)Conduct research into all aspects of air transport and air navi gation which are of international importance, communicate the results of its research to the contracting States, and facilitate the exchange of informa tion between contracting States on air transport and air navigation matters;

(d)Study any matters affecting the organization and operation of international air transport, including the international ownership and operation of international air services on trunk routes, and submit to the Assembly plans in relation thereto;

(e)Investigate, at the request of any contracting State, any situation which may appear to present avoidable obstacles to the development of international air navigation; and, after such investigation, issue such reports as may appear to it desirable.


CHAPTER x

THE AIR NAVIGATION COMMISSION

Article 56

Nomination and appointment of Commission

The Air Navigation Commission shall be composed of twelve members appointed by the Council from among persons nominated by contracting States.


No. 102

338	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


These persons shall have suitable qualifications and experience in the science and practice of aeronautics. The Council shall request all contracting States to submit nominations. The President of the Air Navigation Commission shall be appointed by the Council.

Article 57

Duties of Commission

The Air Navigation Commission shall:

(a)Consider, and recommend to the Council for adoption, modifica tions of the Annexes to this Convention;

(6)Establish technical subcommissions on which any contracting State may be represented, if it so desires;

(c)Advise the Council concerning the collection and communication to the contracting States of all information which it considers necessary and useful for the advancement of air navigation.



CHAPTER XI

PERSONNEL

Article 58

Appointment of personnel

Subject to any rules laid down by the Assembly and to the provisions of this Convention, the Council shall determine the method of appointment and of termination of appointment, the training, and the salaries, allowances, and conditions of service of the Secretary General and other personnel of the Organization, and may employ or make use of the services of nationals of any contracting State.

Article 59

International character of personnel

The President of the Council, the Secretary General, and other personnel shall not seek or receive instructions in regard to the discharge of their responsi bilities from any authority external to the Organization. Each contracting State undertakes fully to respect the international character of the responsibilities of the personnel and not to seek to influence any of its nationals in the discharge of their responsibilities.


No. 102

340_________United Nations— Treaty Series_________1948


Article 60

Immunities and privileges of personnel

Each contracting State undertakes, so far as possible under its constitutional procedure, to accord to the President of the Council, the Secretary General, and the other personnel of the Organization, the immunities and privileges which are accorded to corresponding personnel of other public international organiza tions. If a general international agreement on the immunities and privileges of international civil servants is arrived at, the immunities and privileges accorded to the President, the Secretary General, and the other personnel of the Organiza tion shall be the immunities and privileges accorded under that general inter national agreement.


CHAPTER XII

FINANCE

Article 61

Budget and apportionment of expenses

The Council shall submit to the Assembly an annual budget, annual state ments of accounts and estimates of all receipts and expenditures. The Assembly shall vote the budget with whatever modification it sees fit to prescribe, and, with the exception of assessments under Chapter XV to States consenting thereto, shall,apportion the expenses of the Organization among the contracting States oh the basis which it shall from time to time determine.

Article 62

Suspension of voting power

The Assembly may suspend the voting power in the Assembly and in the Council of any contracting State that fails to discharge within a reasonable period its financial obligations to the Organization.

Article 63

Expenses of delegations and other representatives

Each contracting State shall bear the expenses of its own delegation to the Assembly and the remuneration, travel, and other expenses of any person whom it appoints to serve on the Council, and of its nominees or representatives on any subsidiary committees or commissions of the Organization.


No.  102

342_________United Nations —Treaty Series________1948



CHAPTER XDOC

OTHER INTERNATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

Article 64

Security arrangements

The Organization may, with respect to air matters within its competence directly affecting world security, by vote of the Assembly enter into appropriate arrangements with any general organization set up by the nations of the world to preserve peace.

Article 65

Arrangements with other international bodies

The Council, on behalf of the Organization, may enter into agreements with other international bodies for the maintenance of common services and for common arrangements concerning personnel and, with the approval of the Assembly, may enter into such other arrangements as may facilitate the work of the Organization.

Article 66

Functions relating to other agreements

(a)The Organization shall also carry out the functions placed upon it by the International Air Services Transit Agreement and by the International Air Transport Agreement drawn up at Chicago on December 7, 1944, in accord ance with the terms and conditions therein set forth.

(6)Members of the Assembly and the Council who have not accepted the International Air Services Transit Agreement or the International Air Transport Agreement drawn up at Chicago on December 7, 1944 shall not have the right to vote on any questions referred to the Assembly or Council under the provisions of the relevant Agreement.


PART III.	INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT

CHAPTER XIV

INFORMATION AND REPORTS

Article 67

File reports with Council

Each contracting State undertakes that its international airlines shall, in accordance with requirements laid down by the Council, file with the Council


No.  102

344	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948

traffic reports, cost statistics and financial statements showing among other things all receipts and the sources thereof.



CHAPTER xv

AIRPORTS  AND OTHER AIR NAVIGATION  FACILITIES

Article 68

Designation of routes and airports

Each contracting State may, subject to the provisions of this Convention, designate the route to be followed within its territory by any international air service and the airports which any such service may use.

Article 69

Improvement of air navigation facilities

If the Council is of the opinion that the airports or other air navigation facilities, including radio and meteorological services, of a contracting State are not reasonably adequate for the safe, regular, efficient, and economical operation of international air services, present or contemplated, the Council shall consult with the State directly concerned, and other States affected, with a view to finding means by which the situation may be remedied, and may make recommendations for that purpose. No contracting State shall be guilty of an infraction of this Convention if it fails to carry out these recommendations.


Article 70

Financing of air navigation facilities

A contracting State, in the circumstances arising under the provisions of Article 69, may conclude an arrangement with the Council for giving effect to such recommendations. The State may elect to bear all of the costs involved in any such arrangement. If the States does not so elect, the Council may agree, at the request of the State, to provide for all or a portion of the costs.

Article 71

Provision and maintenance of facilities by Council

If a contracting State so requests, the Council may agree to provide, man, maintain, and administer any or all of the airports and other air navigation


No.  102

346	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


facilities, including radio and meteorological services, required in its territory for the safe, regular, efficient and economical operation of the international air services of the other contracting States, and may specify just and reasonable charges for the use of the facilities provided.


Article 72

Acquisition or use of land

Where land is needed for facilities financed in whole or in part by the Council at the request of a contracting State, that State shall either provide the land itself, retaining title if it wishes, or facilitate the use of the land by the Council on just and reasonable terms and in accordance with the laws of the State concerned.

Article 73

Expenditure and assessment of funds

Within the limit of the funds which may be made available to it by the Assembly under Chapter XII, the Council may make current expenditures for the purposes of this Chapter from the general funds of the Organization. The Council shall assess the capital funds required for the purposes of this Chapter in previously agreed proportions over a reasonable period of time to the con tracting States consenting thereto whose airlines use the facilities. The Council may also assess to States that consent any working funds that are required.



Article 74

Technical assistance and utilization of revenues

When the Council, at the request of a contracting State, advances funds or provides airports or other facilities in whole or in part, the arrangement may provide, with the consent of that State, for technical assistance in the supervision and operation of the airports and other facilities, and for the payment, from the revenues derived from the operation of the airports and other facilities, of the operating expenses of the airports and the other facilities, and of interest and amortization charges.

Article 75

Taking over of facilities from Council

A contracting State may at any time discharge any obligation into which it has entered under Article 70, and take over airports and other facilities which


No.  102

348	United Nations — Treaty Series_________1948



the Council has provided in its territory pursuant to the provisions of Articles 71 and 72, by paying to the Council an amount which in the opinion of the Council is reasonable in the circumstances. If the State considers that the amount fixed by the Council is unreasonable it may appeal to the Assembly against the decision of the Council and the Assembly may confirm or amend the decision of the Council.

Article 76

Return of funds

Funds obtained by the Council through reimbursement under Article 75 and from receipts of interest and amortization payments under Article 74 shall, in the case of advances originally financed by States under Article 73, be returned to the States which were originally assessed in the proportion of their assess ments, as determined by the Council.




CHAPTER XVI

JOINT OPERATING ORGANIZATIONS AND POOLED SERVICES

Article 77

Joint operating organizations permitted

Nothing in this Convention shall prevent two or more contracting States from constituting joint air transport operating organizations or international operating agencies and from pooling their air services on any routes or in any regions, but such organizations or agencies and such pooled services shall be subject to all the provisions of this Convention, including those relating to the registration of agreements with the Council. The Council shall determine in what manner the provisions of this Convention relating to nationality of aircraft shall apply to aircraft operated by international operating agencies.



Article 78

Function of Council

The Council may suggest to contracting States concerned that they form joint organizations to operate air services on any routes or in any regions.


No. 102

350	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948

Article 79

Participation in operating organizations

A State may participate in joint operating organizations or in pooling arrangements, either through its government or through an airline company or companies designated by its government. The companies may, at the sole dis cretion of the State concerned, be state-owned or partly state-owned or privately owned.




PART  IV.	FINAL PROVISIONS

CHAPTER XVII

OTHER AERONAUTICAL AGREEMENTS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Article 80

Paris ana Habana Conventions

Each contracting State undertakes, immediately upon the coming into force of this Convention, to give notice of denunciation of the Convention relating to the Regulation of Aerial Navigation signed at Paris on October 13, 1919 or the Convention on Commercial Aviation signed at Habana on February 20, 1928, if it is a party to either. As between contracting States, this Convention supersedes the Conventions of Paris and Habana previously referred to.

Article 81

Registration of existing agreements

All aeronautical agreements which are in existence on the coming into force of this Convention, and which are between a contracting State and any other State or between an airline of a contracting State and any other State or the airline of any other State, shall be forthwith registered with the Council.

Article 82

Abrogation of inconsistent arrangements

The contracting States accept this Convention as abrogating all obligations and understandings between them which are inconsistent with its terms, and undertake not to enter into any such obligations and understandings. A con-

No. 102

352	__	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


tracting State which, before becoming a member of the Organization has under taken any obligations toward a non-contracting State or a national of a con tracting State or of a non-contracting State inconsistent with the terms of this Convention, shall take immediate steps to procure its release from the obligations. If an airline of any contracting State has entered into any such inconsistent obligations, the State of which it is a national shall use its best efforts to secure their termination forthwith and shall in any event cause them to be terminated as soon as such action can lawfully be taken after the coming into force of this Convention.

Article 83

Registration of new arrangements

Subject to the provisions of the preceding Article, any contracting State may make arrangements not inconsistent with the provisions of this Convention. Any such arrangement shall be forthwith registered with the Council, which shall make it public as soon as possible.



CHAPTER XVIII

DISPUTES  AND DEFAULT

Article 84

Settlement of disputes

If any disagreement between two or more contracting States relating to the interpretation or application of this Convention and its Annexes cannot be settled by negotiation, it shall, on the application of any State concerned in the disagreement, be decided by the Council. No member of the Council shall vote in the consideration by the Council of any dispute to which it is a party. Any contracting State may, subject to Article 85, appeal from the decision of the Council to an ad hoc arbitral tribunal agreed upon with the other parties to the dispute or to the Permanent Court of International Justice. Any such appeal shall be notified to the Council within sixty days of receipt of notification of the decision of the Council.

Article 85

Arbitration procedure

If any contracting State party to a dispute in which the decision of the Council is under appeal has not accepted the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice and the contracting States parties to the dispute cannot agree on the choice of the arbitral tribunal, each of the contracting States parties


No.  102

354	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


to the dispute shall name a single arbitrator who shall name an umpire. If either contracting State party to the dispute fails to name an arbitrator within a period of three months from the date of the appeal, an arbitrator shall be named on behalf of that State by the President of the Council from a list of qualified and available persons maintained by the Council. If, within thirty days, the arbi trators cannot agree on an umpire, the President of the Council shall designate an umpire from the list previously referred to. The arbitrators and the umpire shall then jointly constitute an arbitral tribunal. Any arbitral tribunal established under this or the preceding Article shall settle its own procedure and give its decisions by majority vote, provided that the Council may determine procedural questions in the event of any delay which in the opinion of the Council is excessive.



Article 86

Appeals

Unless the Council decides otherwise, any decision by the Council on whether an international airline is operating in conformity with the provisions of this Convention shall remain in effect unless reversed on appeal. On any other matter, decisions of the Council shall, if appealed from, be suspended until the appeal is decided. The decisions of the Permanent Court of Inter national Justice and of an arbitral tribunal shall be final and binding.


Article 87

Penalty for non-conformity of airline

Each contracting State undertakes not to allow the operation of an airline of a contracting State through the airspace above its territory if the Council has decided that the airline concerned is not conforming to a final decision rendered in accordance with the previous Article.

Article 88

Penalty for non-conformity by State


The Assembly shall suspend the voting power in the Assembly and in the Council of any contracting State that is found in default under the provisions of this Chapter,


No. 102

356	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


CHAPTER XIX

WAR

Article 89

War and emergency conditions

In case of war, the provisions of this Convention shall not affect the freedom of action of any of the contracting States affected, whether as belligerents or as neutrals. The same principle shall apply in the case of any contracting State which declares a state of national emergency and notifies the fact to the Council.


CHAPTER XX

ANNEXES

Article 90

Adoption and amendment of Annexes

(a)The adoption by the Council of the Annexes described in Article 54, subparagraph (1), shall require the vote of two-thirds of the Council at a meeting called for that purpose and shall then be submitted by the Council to each con tracting State. Any such Annex or any amendment of an Annex shall become effective within three months after its submission to the contracting States or at the end of such longer period of time as the Council may prescribe, unless in the meantime a majority of the contracting States register their disapproval with the Council.

(b)The Council shall immediately notify all contracting States of the coming into force of any Annex or amendment thereto.


CHAPTER XXI

RATIFICATIONS, ADHERENCES, AMENDMENTS, AND DENUNCIATIONS

Article 91

Ratification of Convention

(a)This Convention shall be subject to ratification by the signatory States. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Govern ment of the United States of America, which shall give notice of the date of the deposit to each of the signatory and adhering States.


No.  102

358	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


(b)As soon as this Convention has been ratified or adhered to by twenty-six States it shall come into force between them on the thirtieth day after deposit of the twenty-sixth instrument. It shall come into force for each State ratifying thereafter on the thirtieth day after the deposit of its instrument of ratification.



(c)It shall be the duty of the Government of the United States of America to notify the government of each of the signatory and adhering States of the date on which this Convention comes into force.

Article 92

Adherence to Convention

(a)This Convention shall be open for adherence by members of the United Nations and States associated with them, and States which remained neutral during the present world conflict.

(b)Adherence shall be effected by a notification addressed to the Govern ment of the United States of America and shall take effect as from the thirtieth day from the receipt of the notification by the Government of the United States of America, which shall notify all the contracting States.

Article 93

Admission of other States

States other than those provided for in Articles 91 and 92 (a) may, subject to approval by any general international organization set up by the nations of the world to preserve peace, be admitted to participation in this Convention by means of a four-fifths vote of the Assembly and on such conditions as the Assembly may prescribe: provided that in each case the assent of any State invaded or attacked during the present war by the State seeking admission shall be necessary.


Article 94

Amendment of Convention

(a)Any proposed amendment to this Convention must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the Assembly and shall then come into force in respect of States which have ratified such amendment when ratified by the number of contracting States specified by the Assembly. The number so specified shall not be less than two-thirds of the total number of contracting States.

(b)If in its opinion the amendment is of such a nature as to justify this course, the Assembly in its resolution recommending adoption may provide that


No.  102

360	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


any State which has not ratified within a specified period after the amendment has come into force shall thereupon cease to be a member of the Organization and a party to the Convention.

Article 95

Denunciation of Convention

(a)Any contracting State may give notice of denunciation of this Con vention three years after its coming into effect by notification addressed to the Government of the United States of America, which shall at once inform each of the contracting States.

(6)Denunciation shall take effect one year from the date of the receipt of the notification and shall operate only as regards the State effecting the denunciation.



CHAPTER xxn

DEFINITIONS

Article 96

For the purpose of this Convention the expression :

(a)"Air service" means any scheduled air service performed by air craft for the public transport of passengers, mail or cargo.

(b)"International air service" means an air service which passes through the air space over the territory of more than one State.

(c)"Airline" means any air transport enterprise offering or operating an international air service.

(d)"Stop for non-traffic purposes" means a landing for any purpose other than taking on or discharging passengers, cargo or mail.




SIGNATURE OF  CONVENTION

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned plenipotentiaries, having been duly authorized, sign this Convention on behalf of their respective governments on the dates appearing opposite their signatures.


No.  102

362	United Nations —Treaty Series	1948


DONE at Chicago the seventh day of December 1944, in the English language. A text drawn up in the English, French, and Spanish languages1, each of which shall be of equal authenticity, shall be open for signature at Washington, D. C. Both texts shall be deposited in the archives of the Govern ment of the United States of America, and certified copies shall be transmitted by that Government to the governments of all the States which may sign or adhere to this Convention.


For Afghanistan:
A. Hosayn Aziz

For the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia:
Arthur S. DRAKEFORD

For Belgium:
Vicomte du PARC	April 9f£ 1945

For Bolivia:
Tonl. Al. PACHECO

For Brazil:
Fernando LOBO	May 29th, 1945

For Canada:
H J SYMINGTON

*The Convention was signed in the English original version formulated at the International Civil Aviation Conference which took place at Chicago from 1 November to 7 December 1944. No trilingual text has been opened for signature as provided for in the Convention.

The Government of the United States of America in the note of the State Department of 22 September 1947 addressed to the Chiefs of Mission of the Governments concerned, after having drawn their attention to the various problems involved in this respect and to the fact that the Convention as drawn up at the Chicago Conference did not place a specific responsi bility upon the United States Government, as depository of the Convention, to prepare the trilingual text, concluded: "The Department of State considers that it is not advisable to proceed at this time with preparations to open for signature at Washington trilingual texts of those documents. On the contrary, the United States Government proposes to present the question to the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization with a request that the question be placed on the agenda for the next meeting of the Assembly of that Organiza tion. It is believed that this procedure will afford the most efficacious means by which the governments concerned may, after due consideration of all the factors and problems involved, make such decisions with respect thereto as they deem appropriate."

The French translation of the Convention as it appears in the Treaty Series has been made by the Secretariat.


No.  102

364	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948



For Chile:
RSA NZ

G.BlSQUERT.

R MAGALLANES B.

For China:
CHANG Kia-ngau

For Colombia:
Gonzalo RESTREPO JARAMILLO

For Costa Rica:
F de P GUTI RREZ

For Cuba:
Gmo BELT

For Czechoslovakia:
V. S. HURBAN

For the Dominican Republic :

C.  A.  McLAUGHLIN

For Ecuador:
J. A. CORREA
Francisco GOMEZ JURADO

For Egypt:
MHAS s AN M ROUSHDY M. A. KHALIFA

Fo El Salvador:
Felipe VEGA-GOMEZ

For Ethiopia:
Ras H. S. IMRU.

For France:
M.HYMANS
C. LEBEL BOURGES

P. LOCUSSOL












October 31	1947


March Wth 1945


Abril 20, 1945


April 18, 45.
















May 9, 1945.


Feb. 10. 1947:


No. 102

366
United Nations — Treaty Series________1948
For Greece:


D T Noti BOTZARIS


A. J. ARGYROPOULOS.

For Guatemala:


Osc MORALES L.
Jan. 30 - 1945.
For Haiti:


G. Edouard ROY

For Honduras:


E. P. LEFEBVRE

For Iceland:


Thor THORS.

For India:


G V BEWOOR

For Iran:
M. SHAYESTEH




For Iraq:


Ali JAWDAT

For Ireland:


Robt. BRENNAN


John LEYDON.


John J. HEARNE


T. J. O'DRISCOLL

For Lebanon:


C CHAMOUN


F EL-Hoss

For Liberia:


Walter F WALKER

For Luxembourg :
July 9tk 1945

Hugues LE GALLAIS


For Mexico:
Pedro A. CHAPA


No.  102

368	United Nations — Treaty Series	1948


For the Netherlands:
COPES
F G ARONSTEIN

For the Government of New Zealand:
Daniel Giles SULLIVAN

For Nicaragua:
R. E. FRIZELL

For Norway:
W. Munthe MORGENSTIERNE	January 30, 1945.

For  Panama:
The Delegation of the Republic of Panama signs this Convention ad referendum, and subject to the following reservations:

1.Because of its strategic position and responsibility in the pro tection of the means of communication in its territory, which are of the utmost importance to world trade, and vital to the defense of the Western Hemisphere, the Republic of Panama reserves the right to take, with respect to all flights through the air space above its territory, all measures which in its judgment may be proper for its own security or the protection of said means of communication.

2.The Republic of Panama understands that the technical annexes to which reference is made in the Convention constitute recommendations only, and not binding obligations.

For Paraguay:
Celso R. VELAZQUEZ	July 27,  1945.

For Peru:
A REVOREDO
J. S. KOECHLIN
Luis ALVARADO.
F ELGUERA
Gllmo VAN OORDT LEON.

For the Philippine Commonwealth:
JHERNANDEZ Urbano A. ZAFRA J H FOLEY


No. 102

370	United Nations —Treaty Series	1948



For Poland:
Zbyslaw CIOLKOSZ
Dr. H. J. GORECKI.
Stefan J. KONORSKI
Witold A. URBANOWICZ
Ludwik H. GOTTLIEB

For Portugal:
Mario DE FIGUEREDO
Alfredo DELESQUE DOS SANTOS CINTRA
Duarte CALHIEROS
Vasco VIEIRA GARIN

For Spain:
E.TERRADAS. German BARAIBAR Duarte CALHEIROS

For Sweden :
R. KUMLIN

For Switzerland:
Charles BRUGGMANN	July 6th  1945.

For Syria:
N KAHALE

For Turkey:
S. KOCAK
F.SAHINBAS Orhan H. EROL

For the Union of South Africa:
D. D. FORSYTH	4i/z June, 1945.

For the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland :
SWINTON


No.  102

372_________United Nations-—Treaty Series________1948


For the United States of America :
Adolf A. BERLE Jr.
Alfred L. BULWINKLE
Chas. A. WOLVERTON

F.LAGUARDIA. Edward WARNER L. Welch POGUE William A. M. BURDEN

For Uruguay:
Carl CARBAJAL
Col.  Medardo R.  FAR AS

For Venezuela:


For Yugoslavia:


For Denmark :
Henrik KAUFFMANN

For Thailand:
M. R. SENI PRAMOJ


LIST OF STATES PARTIES TO THE  CONVENTION

INDICATING THE DATES OF DEPOSIT OF INSTRUMENT OF RATIFICATION OR NOTIFICA TION OF ADHERENCE WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF TH UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE DATES OF ENTRY INTO FORCE OF THE CONVENTION IN RESPECT OF EACH PARTY


Date of deposit of




instrument  of ratifica-

Date of entry

tion or notification

into force of



of adherence

the Convention
Poland  .........................
6
April
1945
4
April
1947
Turkey  .........................
20
December
1945
4
April
1947
Nicaragua  ......................
28
December
1945
4
April
1947
Paraguay  .......................
21
January
1946
4
April
1947
Dominican Republic  .............
25
January
1946
4
April
1947
Canada  ........................
13
February
1946
4
April
1947
China   .........................
20 February
1946
4
April
1947
Peru  ...........................
8
April
1946
4
April
1947
Argentine  ......................
4 June
1946
4 April
1947


No. 102

374
United Nations — Treaty Series


1948


Date of deposit of

Date of entry


instrument  of ratifica

into force of


tion or notification
the  Convention



of adherence



Mexico  ................... . . . . .
25
June
1946
4
April
1947
Brazil  ..................... . . . . .
8
July
1946
4 April
1947
United  States of America. . . . . . . . .
9
August
1946
4
April
1947
Ireland  ................... . . . . .
31
October
1946
4
April
1947
Sweden  ................... . . . . .
7
November
1946
4
April
1947
Switzerland  ................ . . . . .
6
February
1947
4
April
1947
Liberia   ................... .....
11
February
1947
4
April
1947
Portugal
.................. . . . . .
27
February
1947
4
April
1947
Denmark
.................. . . . . .
28
February
1947
4
April
1947
Australia
.................. .....
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
Czechoslovakia  ............. . . . . .
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
Ethiopia
.................. .....
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
India  ..................... . . . . .
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
Philippines Republic  ........ .....
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
Union of South Africa ....... .....
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
United Kingdom  ........... .....
1
March
1947
4
April
1947
Spain  ..................... . . . . .
5
March
1947
4
April
1947
New Zealand  .............. .....
7
March
1947
6
April
1947
Chile  ..................... .....
11
March
1947
10
April
1947
Egypt  .................... .....
13
March
1947
12
April
1947
Greece  .................... . . . . .
13
March
1947
12
April
1947
Transjordan  ............... .....
18
March
1947
17
April
1947
Iceland  ................... .....
21
March
1947
20
April
1947
France  .................... .....
25
March
1947
24
April
1947
Netherlands   ............... .....
26
March
1947
25
April
1947
Venezuela
................. .....
1
April
1947
1
May
1947
Afghanistan   ............... .....
4
April
1947
4
May
1947
Bolivia  .................... .....
4 April
1947
4
May
1947
Thailand
(Siam)  ........... .....
4
April
1947
4
May
1947
Guatemala  ................ .....
28
April
1947
28
May
1947
Belgium  ................... .....
5
May
1947
4
June
1947
Norway  ................... .....
5
May
1947
4
June
1947
Iraq  ...................... .....
2
June
1947
2
July
1947
El Salvador ................ .....
11
June
1947
11
July
1947
Colombia
................. .....
31
October
1947
30
November
1947
Italy1  ..................... .....
31
October
1947
30
November
1947
Pakistan
.................. .....
6 November
1947
6
December
1947
Haiti  ..................... ...
25
March
1948
24
April
1948

lrThe Convention came into force with respect to Italy by virtue of the fulfilment, on 31 October 1947, of the conditions provided in article 93 of the Convention and of the terms and conditions stipulated in the resolution of the Assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organization of 16 May 1947.


No.  102