










r


.
































T

I
TREATY  SERIES  No. 28 (1923).







CONVENTION	AND  STATUTE

ON	TIIE

REGIME OF NAVIGABLE WATERWAYS OF INTERNATIONAL CONCERN

TOGETHER  WITH

ADDITIONAL	PROTOCOL	TO	THE

CONVENTION.



Signed at Barcelona, April 20, 1921.



Presented to Parliament by Command of His Majesty.















LON DON :
PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY' S STATIONERY OFFICE
To be purchased through any Bookseller or directly from H . M. STATIONERY OFFICE
at the following addresses :  Imperial  House , Kingsway, London, W.C.	and

28  Abingdon  Street.  London ,  S W.l ;  York  Street,  Manchester ;
1 St. Andrew's Crescent , Cardiff; or
120 George Sweet.  Edinburgh.

1923

Price Gd. Net.


Cmd. 1993.


Convention et Statut sur le Regime des Voies navigables d'Interet international.


Barcelone,  le 20 avril 1921.


L'ALBANIE, l'Autriche, Is Belgique, la Bolivie, le Brasil, la Bulgarie, Is Chili, la Chine, la Colombie, Is Costa-Rica, Cuba, to Danemark,.l'Empire britannique (avec la Nouvelle-Mande et les Indes), l'Espagne, l'Esthonie, la Finlande, la France, la Grace, Is Guatemala, Hayti, Is Honduras, I'Italie, le Japon, la Lettonie, la Lithuania, le Luxembourg, Is Norvege, le Panama, le Paraguay, les Pays-Bas; la Perse, la Pologne, le Portugal, la Rournanie, 1'Etat serbe-croate-slovene; la Suede, la Suisse; la Tchecoslovaquie, l'IIru-guay et le Venezuela,

Desireux, en ce qui concerne to regime international de la navi-gation sur les eaux interieures, de poursuivre 1'evolution corumencee it y a plus d'un siecle et affirmee solennellement dans de nombreux Traites,

Considerant que east par le moyen de Conventions generales, auxquelles d'autres Puissances pourront adherer ulterieurement, qu'ils seront Is mieux a meme de realiser les intentions de Particle
23 (e) du Pacte de la Societe des Nations, - Reconnaissant, en particulier. qu'une consecration nouvelle du

principe de la liberte de Is navigation, dans un Statut elabore par quarante et un• ]tats appartenant aux diverses parties du monde, constitue une etape nouvelle et significative dans la, voie de In cooperation entre ]tats, accomplie sans porter aucun prejudice a tours droits de souverainet6 on d'autorite,

Ayant accepte l'invitation de la Societe des Nations de participer a une Conference, reunie a Barcelone le 10 mars 1921, et ayant pris connaissance de l'Acte final de cette Conference,

Soucieux de mettre en vigueur, des a present, les dispositions du Statut concernant le Regime des Voies navigables d'Interet inter-national qui y a ate adopt6,

Voulant conclure une Convention a cet• effet, les Hautes Parties Contractantes ont designe pour pl6nipotentiaires :

Le President du Conseil Supreme de 1'Albanie Monseigneur Fan. S. Noli, Depute au Parlement.
Le President de la Republique d'Autriche :

M. Henri Reinhardt, Conseiller Ministeriel.

Sa Majeste to Roi des Belges :
Al. Xavier Neujean, Ministre des Chemins de for, do la Marine, des Postes et des Telegraphes.
Le President de la Republique de Bolivie :

M. Trifon Mclean, Consul general de la Bolivie on Espagne.


Convention and Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern.

Barcelona , the 20th April 1921.


ALBANIA, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Denmark, the British Empire (with New Zealand and India), Spain, Esthonia, Finland, France, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, klonduras; Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxemburg, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, the Nether-lands, Persia, Poland, Portugal, Roumania, the Serb-Croat-Slovene State, Sweden, Switzerland, Czecho-Slovakia, Uraguay, and Venezuela :

Desirous of carrying further the development as regards the international regime of navigation on internal waterways, which began more than a century ago, and which has been solemnly affirmed in numerous treaties,

Considering that General Conventions to which other Powers may accede at a later date constitute the best method of realising the purpose of Article 23 (e) of the Covenant of the League of Nations,

Recognising in particular that a fresh confirmation of the principle of Freedom of Navigation in a Statute elaborated by forty-one States belonging to the different portions of the world constitutes a new and significant stage towards the establishment of co-operation among States without in any way prejudicing their rights of sovereignty or authority,

Having accepted the invitation of the League of Nations to take part in a Conference at Barcelona which met on the 10th 'March 1921, and having taken note of the Final Act of such Conference, Anxious  to  bring  into  force  forthwith  the  provisions  of  the Statute  relating  to  the  Regime  of  Navigable  Waterways  of
International Concern which has there been adopted,

Wishing to conclude a Convention for this purpose, the High Contracting Parties have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries

The President of the Supreme Council of Albania

Monsignor Fan S. Noli; Member of Parliament.

The President of the Republic of Austria :	v

M.Henri Reinhardt , Ministerial Councillor.

Ifis Majest y the Ring of the Belgians :

M. Xavier Neujean , Minister for Railways , Marine, Posts and Telegraphs.

The President of the Republic of Bolivia

M. Trifon Melean , Bolivian Consul in Spain.


1707  Wt. - 1375 11/23 ROY. [10526]	13 2

4

Sa Majeste le Roi de Bulgarie :
M. Lubin Bochkoff, Ingenieur civil, adjoint an Directeur general des Chemins de fer et des Ports.
Le President de la .Republique du Chili :

Senor Manuel Rivas Vicuna, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire.

Le President de la Republique Chinoise

M.	Outing Yong-Pao, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire.

$a Majeste le Roi de Danemark et d'Islande

M. Peter Andreas I foick-Colding_, Chef do bureau du Ministere des Travaux Publics.

Sa Majeste to Roi du Royaume-Uni de Grande-Bretagne et d'Irlande et des territoires britanniques an dela des mere, Empereur des Irides :

Sir Hubert Llewellyn Smith, G.C.B., Conseiller Econo-mique du Gouvernement;

et pour le Dominion de la Nouvelle-Zelande Sir Eubert Llewellyn Smith. G.C.B.
Pour 1'Inde :

Sir Louis Janes Kershaw, K.C.S.I., C.I.E., Secretaire du Departement des Finances et de la Statistique de l'Office do 1'Inde.
Sa Majeste le Boi d'Espagne :

Senor Don Emilio Ortuno y Berte, Membre de la Chambre des Deputes, ancien ;\Ministre des Travaux Publics.
he President de la Republique Estbonienne
M. Charles Robert Pusta, Ministre plenipotentiaire.

be President de la Republique de Finlande :

M. Rolf Thesleff, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre pleni-potentiaire.

Le President de la Republique Frangaise

M. Maurice Sibille, Depute, Membre du Comite consultatif des Chemins do for frangais.

Sa Majeste le Boi des Hellenes :          ' M. G. Caradja, Ministre plenipotentiaire. Le President de la Republique de Guatemala

MI. le Dr. Norberto Galvez, Consul general de Guatemala a Barcelone.

Sa Majeste 1e Roi d'Ttalie

V. Paolo Bignami, Ingenieur, Depute an Parlement italien, ancien Sous-Secretaire d'Etat.

Le President de Ill Republique Lithuanienne

M. Y. Sidzikauskas, Charge d'Affaires a Berne.

Son Altesse Royale la Grande-Duchesse do Luxembourg :

M. Antoine Lefort, Charge d'Affaires a Berne.
Sa Majeste le Boi do Norvege :

M. le Dr. Fridtjof Nansen, Professeur a 1'Universite de Christiania.












i

















1


[10526]

5

His Majesty the King of Bulgaria :

M. Lubin Bochkoff, Civil Engineer, assistant to the Director-General of Railways and Ports.
The President of the Republic of Chile

Senor Manuel Rivas Vicuna, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.
The President of the Republic of China :	A

M..Ouang Yong-Pao, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.

His Majesty the King of Denmark and of Iceland :	x
I
M. Peter Andreas Holek-Colding, Chef de Bureau in the Ministry of Public Works.

His Majesty the King of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and of the British Dominions beyond the Seas, Emperor of India :

Sir Hubert Llewellyn Smith, G.C.B., Economic Adviser to the Government;

and for the Dominion of New Zealand Sir Hubert Llewellyn Smith. G:C.B.
For India :

Sir Louis James Kershaw, K.C.S.I., C.I.E., Secretary in the Revenue and Statistics Department in the India Office.

His Majesty the King of Spain :	x

Senor Don Emilio Ortuno y Berte, Member of the Chamber of Deputies, formerly Minister of Public Works.

The President of the Esthonian Republic :
M. Charles Robert Pusta, Minister Plenipotentiary.
3
The President of the Republic of Finland :


M.	Bolf	Thesleff,	Envoy	Extraordinary	and	Minister

Plenipotentiary.

The President of the French Republic :
3

M.	Maurice Sihille, Deputy, Member of the Comite consultatif des Chemins de fer francais.


His Majesty the Ring of the Hellenes :

M. G. Caradja, Minister Plenipotentiary.

The President of the Republic of Guatemala :

Dr.	Norberto	Galvez,	Guatemalan
Barcelona.

His Majesty the King of Italy :
r


Consul-General	at

3


M. Paolo Bignami, Engineer, Ilember of the Chamber of Deputies, former Under-Secretary of State.
The President of the Lithuanian Republic : x M. V. Sidzikauskas, Charge d'Affaires at Berne.

Her royal Highness the Grand-Duchess of Luxemburg
M. Antoine Lefort. Charge d'Affaires at Berne.
3
His Majesty the King of Norway :



Dr. Fridtjof Nansen, Professor in Christiania University.

6

Le President de la Republique de Panama :

M. le Docteur Evenor 1'laze-a. Consul general de Panama pour l'.Espagne, ancien Sous-Secretaire d'Etat.

Le President de In Republique Polonaise M. Joseph Wielovieyski..
Le President de in Republique 1ortugaise

M.	Alfredo  Freire  d'Andrade,  ancien  Ministre  des  Affaires

Etrangeres.

Su Majeste Is Roi de Suede
H. Fredrik V. Hanson, Directeur general des Forces hydrau-
i
lioues et des Conaux de I'Etat.
Le President de la Republique Tehecoslovaque

M.	Bolmslav Muller, Ingenieur, Secretaire d'Etat an Ministere des Travaux publics, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire.

Le President do la Republique Orientale de l'Uruguay

M. Benjamin Fernandez y Medina, Envoye extraordinaire et Ministre plenipotentiaire en Espagne;

Lesquels, apres avoir communique leurs pleins pouvoirs trouves en bonne et due forme, sent convenus de ce qui suit

ARTICLE	1e'.

Les Hautes Parties contractantes declarent accepter le Statut ci-annexe relatif all Regime desVoies navigdbles d'Interet inter-national, adopte par la Coliferenccj de Borcelone, IS 19 avril 1921.

Cc Statut sera considers conuue faisant partie integrante de la presente Convention. Ell consequence, slues declarent accepter les obligations et engagements dudit Statut, conformement aux termes et suivant les conditions qui y figorent.

ARTICLE 2.

La presente Convention ne Porte on rien atteinte aux droits et obligations qui resultent des,dispositions du Traits de Pais, signs a Versailles Is 28 jnin 1919, on des dispositions des autres Traites analogues, ell ce qui concerne les Puissances signataires on benefi-ciaires de ces Traites.

ARTICLE  3.

La presente Convention, dent les textes frangais et anglais font egalement foi, portera la date de ce jour et-pourra•etre signee jusqu'au
le` decembre 1921.	.

ARTICLE 4.

La presente Convention est sujette a r'atification.' Les instru-ments de ratification seront transmis an Secretaire general de la Societe des nations, qui en notifiera la reception aux autres Membres de la Societe, ainsi qu'aux Etats admis a signer in Convention. Lea

7

The President of the Republic of Panama :	X

Dr. Evenor Hazera, Consul-General for Panama in Spain, former Under-Secretary of State.
The President of the Polish Republic
M. Joseph Wielovieyski.

The President of the Portuguese Republic

H. Alfredo Freire d'Andrade,  formerly -Minister of Foreign

Affairs.

His Majesty the King of Sweden :

Al. Fredrik V. Hansen, Director-General of Hydraulic Power said State Canals.
The President of the Czecho-Slovak Republic :	3

M. Bohuslav Muller, Engineer, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Works, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary.

The President of the Oriental Republic of Uruguay

M. Benjamin Fernandez y Medina, Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Spain

Who, after communicating their full powers, found in good and due form, have agreed as follows :-

ARTICLE	1.

The High Contracting parties declare that they accept the Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern annexed hereto, adopted by the Barcelona Conference on the 19th April 1.921.

This Statute will be deemed to constitute an integral part of the present Convention. Consequently. they hereby declare that they accept the obligations and undertakings of the said Statute in conformity with the terms and in accordance with the conditions set out therein.

ARTICLE  2.

The present Convention does not in any way affect the rights and obligations arising out of the provisions of the Treaty of Peace signed at Versailles on the 28th June 1919, or out of the provisions of the other Corresponding Treaties, in so far as they concern the Powers which have signed, or which benefit by, such Treaties.

ARTICLE 3.

The present Convention, of which the French and English texts are both authentic, shall bear this da}'s date and shall be open for signature until the 1st December.1921.

ARTICLE 4.

The present Convention is subject to ratification. The instruments of ratification shall be transmitted to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations, who will notify the receipt of tl,em to the other Members of the League and to States admitted to

8

instruments do ratification seront deposes aux Archives du Secretariat.

Pour deferer aux prescriptions de ]'article 18 du Pacts do la Societe des Nations, le Seeretaire general procedera a 1'enregistre-ment de la presente Convention, des Is depot de la premiere ratification.

ARTICLE 5.

Les Membres de la Societe des Nations qui n'auront pas sign la presente Convention avant le 10r d'ecembre 1.921 pourront y adherer.
Il en sera de meme des	`tats non Membres de la Societe, auxquels

le Conseil de la Societe aurait decide de dormer communication officielle de la presente Convention.

L'adhesion sera notifies an Seeretaire general de la Societe, qui informera toutos les Puissances interessees do ]'adhesion et de la date a laquelle celle-ci a ete notifiee.

ARTICLE  6.

La presente Convention n'entrera en vigueur qu'apres avoir ete ratifiee par cinq Puissances. La date de son entree en vigueur sera le quatre-vingt-dixieme jour apres la reception par le Seeretaire general de la Societe des Nations de la cinquieme ratification. Ulterieurement, la presente Convention prendra effet, on ce qui concerne chaeune des Parties, quatre-vingt-dix jours apres Is reeep-tion de la ratification ou de la notification de ]'adhesion.

Des ]'entree en vigueur do la presente Convention, le Seeretaire general on adressera one copie conforme aux Puissances non Membres de Is Societe, qui, en vertu des TraitCs de Paix, Be sent engagees a y adherer.

ARTICLE 7.

Un'recueil special sera tenu par le Seeretaire general de la Societe des Nations, indiquant quelles Parties ont signs on ratifie la presente Convention, y ont adhere on Font denoncee. Ce recueil sera con-stamment ouvert aux Membres de la Societe et publication en sera faite anssi souvent que possible, suivant les indications du Conseil.

ARTICLE S.

Sous reserve des dispositions de ]'article 2 de Is presente Conven-tion, celle-ci pent titre denoncee par Tune quelconque des Parties, apres ]'expiration d'un delai de cinq ans, a partir de la date de son entree en vigueur pour ladite Partie. La denonciation sera faits sous forme de notification ecrite, adressee an Seeretaire general de la Societe des Nations. Copie de cette notification, informant touter les autres Parties do la date a laquelle Bile a ete revue, leur sera immediatement transmise par le Seeretaire general. La denoncia-tion prendra effet un an apres la date a laquelle Bile aura ete repue par le Seeretaire general et ne sera operante qu'en ce'qui concerne la Puissance qui l'aura notifiee. Elie ne portera pas atteinte, a moms d'accord contraire, a des engagements relatifs a un programme de txavaux contractes avant Is denonciation.

9

sign the Convention. The instruments of ratification shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat.

In order to comply with the provisions of Article 1S of the Covenant of the League of Nations, the Secretary-General will register the present Convention upon the deposit of the first ratification.

ARTICLE  5.

Members of the League of Nations which have not signed the present Convention before the 1st December, 1921, may accede to it.
The same applies to States not Members of the League to which

the Council of the League may decide officially to communicate' the present Convention.

Accession will be notified to the Secretary-General of the League, who will inform all Powers concerned of the accession and of the date on which it was notified.

ARTICLE 6.

The present Convention will not come into force until it has been ratified by five Powers. The date of its coining into force shall be the ninetieth day after the receipt by the Secretary-General of the League of Nations of the fifth ratification. Thereafter the present Convention will take effect in the case of each Party ninety days after the receipt of its ratification or of the notification of its accession.

Upon the coming into force of the present Convention, the Secretary-General will address a certified copy of it to the Powers not Members of the League which are bound under the Treaties of Peace to accede to it.

ARTICLE 1.

A special record shall be kept by the Secretary-General of the League of Nations, showing which of the Parties have signed, ratified, acceded to or denounced the present Convention. This record shall be open to the Members of the League at all times; it shall be published as often as possible in accordance with the directions of the Council.
ARTICLE S.

Subject to the provisions of Article 2 of the present Convention. the latter may • be denounced by any Party thereto after the expiration of five years from the date when it came into force in respect of that Party. Denunciation shall be effected by notification in writing addressed to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations. Copies of such notification shall he transmitted forthwith by him to all the other Parties, informing them of the date on which it was received. The denunciation shall take effect one year after the date on which it was notified to the Secretary-General, and shall operate only' in respect of the notifying Power. It shall not, in the absence of an agreement to the contrary. prejudice engage-ments entered into before the denunciation relating to a programme of works.

10

' ARTICLE 9.

La revision de la presente Convention petitetre dernandee a toute epoque par tin tiers des 1-lautes Parties contractantes.

En foi de quoi. les Plenipotentiaires susnonrmes, ont signe la presente Convention.

Fait a Barcelone, le vingt avril mil neuf cent vingt et tin, en tin seal exernplaire qui restera depose dans les archives de la Societe des Nations.

FAN S. NOLI.
REINHARDT.
XAVIER NEUJEAN.
TRIFON MELEAN.
L. BOCHKOFF.
MANUEL RIVAS VICUnA.
OUANG YONG-PAO.
A. HOLCK-COLDING.

HUBERT LLEWELLYN  SMITH. Sous  reserve  de  la  declaration  inseree an  proees-verbal  de  In  seance  du

19avril 1921 , relative aux • Domi-nions britanniques non representes a Is Conference de Barcelone.*

H.LLEWELLYN SMITH.






N.GALVEZ S.
PAOLO BIGNAMI.
V. SIDZIKAUSkAS.
LEFORT...

FRIDTJOF NANSEN. EVENOB HAZERA.. JOSEPH WIELOVIEYSKI. A. FREIIIE D'ANDRADE. FREDRIK'HANSEN. ' '

ING. BOHI,SLAV MTJLLEE. B. FERNANDEZ Y MEDINA.

*Le texte de la declaration est Is suivaut

Au moment de signer cette convention comme representant de 1'Empire britannique , je declare qua ma signature tie lie . pas les Dominions . britanniques du Canada, de 1'Australie et de I'Afrique du Sud qui sent individuellement 111embres de la Societe des Nation s`' et Wont pas envoye de ' representants a'cotte Conference. Lo'droit pour ' chacun de ces trois Dominions , de signer la Convention on d'y adherer a une. date ulterieure, est reserve, et Rest entendu qu'a defaut de lent signature on adhesion , its n'auront pas droit an benefice de la Convention.

"Je me reserve egalerrient t o droit de declarer, , ad moment'do la ratification. si out on non In ratification comprend - le Dominion dc ' Terre N euve. S'il nest pas compris daps la ratification, le Dominion de Terre-Neuve n'aura pas droit an benefice de In Convention."

10 3i
It

ARTICLE 9.

A request for the revision of the present Convention may be made at any time by one-third of the Eigh Contracting Parties.

In faith whereof the above-named Plenipotentiaries have signed the present Convention.

Done at Barcelona the twentieth day of April one thousand nine hundred and twenty-one , in a single copy which shall remain deposited in the archives of the League of Nations.

FAN S. NOLI.	JAIL o
RE]N1-IARDT.	^
XAVIER NIEUJEAN.
TRIFON DIELEAIIN..

L.130CIIICOFF.
-°''

.r  w

43 ^aa


MANLI L RIVAS VTCF-NA.
OUANG TONG-PAO.	^j
A. I:IOLCK-COLDING.
HUI3ERT LLEWELLYN  SMITH.	h
Subject  to  the  declaration  inserted	in	U
the  prorsns-rc rbul  of  the  meeting  of
April  19th.  1921 .  as	to  the	British
Dominions	which	have	not	been
represented	at	the	Barcelona	Cmn-

ference.`
H. LLEWELLTN SMITH.
L. .1. KERSHAW.

E. QRTU  O.  . `^-t
O.-  k9-


C. R. PLSTA.
Ct^ to v"'

ROLF THE SL1EFF.
(u'k--e
MAURICE SIBILLF..
(C
--
- Q-
G. CARADJA.
Cs (
es
^4
N. GALVEZ S.
G  -  ;•-L,
.•  .-.•  e)
PAOLO1310NA\Q.
r


V. SIDZIKAUSKAS.
L'.

-L  % ^zj
LEFORT.
C


FRIDTJOF NANSEN.

t^( o (..v ^
EVENOR JIAZERA.



JOSEPH WI ELOVIEYSIiI.


A. FREIRE D'ANDRADE.

0
FREDRIK I-IANSEN.

S





ING. BOHUSLAV DICLLER.
C z& e.t,

13.FERNANDEZ Y \IEDINA.

*The text of the Declaration reads as follows

"At the time of signing this Convention , and as representative of the British Empire, I declare that my signature is not binding upon the British Dominions of Canada . Australia and South Africa , which are individual Members of the League of Nations and have not sent representatives to this Conference. The right of each of these three Dominions to sign the Convention , or to accede to it at a later date , is reserved , it being understood that. if they do not sign or accede to it, they shall not be entitled to benefit by the Convention.
"I also reserve the right to declare . at the time of ratification , whether the ratification includes the Dominion of Newfoundland . If it is not included in the ratification , the Dominion of Newfoundland will not be entitled to benefit by the Convention."

12

:Statut relaiif an Regime des Yoies navigables d'Intere"t

international.


ARTICLE	PREMIER.	-

PouR l'application du present Statut, seront considerees comme voies navigables d'interetinternational :.:

1.Toutes parties naturellement navigables vers et depuis Is flier d'une voie d'ean qui, dens son cours naturellement navigable vers at depuis la mer, separe on traverse differents Etats, ainsi que toute partie d'une autre voie d'eau naturellement navigable vers et depuis la nler reliant a la mer une,voie d'eau naturellement navigable qui separe on traverse differents }tats.
Ti est entendu que :	.

(a.) Le transbordement d'un navire on bateau a un autre n'est pas excln par les mots " navigables vets et depuis Is mer " ; (b.) Est dite naturellement navigable, tents voie d'eau naturelle on  partie  de  voie  d'eau  naturelle  faisant  actuellement ]'objet   d'une  navigation   commerciale  ordinaire   ou susceptible, par ses conditions naturelles, de faire ]'objet d'une telle navigation; par navigation commerciale ordi-naire, it faut entendre une navigation qui, etant donnees les conditions economiques des pays riverains,  est com-
mercialement et conramment praticable ;

(c.) Les affluents doivent We consideres comme des voies d'eau separees:

(d.) Les canaux lateranx, etablis en vue do suppleer aux imper-fections dune voie d'eau rentrant daps la definition ci-dessus, sent assimiles a cette derniere;

(e.) Sont consideres comme riverains,.tous lea Etats separes on traverses par une meme voie navigable d'interet inter-national, y compris ses ailments d'interet international.

2.Les voies d'eau on parties de voies d'eau naturelles on arti-ficielles, designees expressement connne devant etre soumises an regime de Is Convention generale concernant lea voies navigables, soit dans les Actes unilateraux •des Mats sous la souverainete ou , l'autorite desquels se trouvent lesdites voies d'eau on parties de voies d'eau, soit dans des accords comportant notamment le consenteinent


des dits Etats.

1


ARTICLE  2.


Parmi.  les  voles  navigables  d'interet  internat ional ,  constituent

tine categoric specialeen vue de ]'application des articles 5, 10, 12 et

14 du present Statut :	.

(a.) Les voies navigables pour lesquelles it exists une Commission internationale o8 sont ropresontes des Etats non riverains ;

/o33
is

Statute on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern.


ARTICLE  1.

IN the application of the Statute , the following are declared to be navigable waterways of international concern :

1.All parts which are naturally navigable to and from the sea. of a waterway which in its course, naturally navigable to and from the sea, separates or traverses different States, and also any part of any other waterway naturally navigable to and from the sea, which connects with the sea a waterway naturally navigable which separates or traverses different States.
It is understood that:

(a.) Transhipment from one vessel to another is not excluded by the words " navigable to and from the sea " ;

(L.) Any natural waterway or part of a natural waterway is. termed " naturally navigable " if now used for ordinary commercial navigation , or capable by reason of its natural conditions of being so used; by " ordinary commercial navigation " is to be understood navigation which, in view of the economic condition of the riparian countries, is. commercial and normally practicable;

(c.) Tributaries are to be considered as separate waterways;

(d.) Lateral canals constructed in order to remedy the defects of a waterway included in the above definition are assimilated thereto ;

(e.) The different States separated or traversed by a navigable waterway of international concern , including its tributaries of international concern, are deemed to be
"riparian States."

2.Waterways , or parts of waterways, whether natural or artificial, expressly declared to be placed under the regime of the General Convention regarding navigable waterways of international concern either in unilateral Acts of the States under whose sovereignty or authority these waterways or parts of waterways are situated , or in agreements made with the consent , in particular, of such States.

ARTICLE  2.

For the purpose of Articles 5, 10, 12 and 14 of this Statute, the following shall form a special category of navigable waterways of international concern :

(a.) Navigable waterways for which there are international Commissions upon which non-riparian States are represented;

14

(b.) Les voies navigables qui seraient ulterieurement classees duns cette categorie, soil en vertu d'Actes unilateraux des l tats sous la sonverainete oil ]'autorite desquels elles se trouvent. soit on vertu d'accords comportant notamment le consentenient des dits Etats.

ARTICLE  3.

Sous reserve des stipulations des articles 5 et 17, chacun des }!.tats -contractants accordera, sur les parties de voies navigables ci-dessus designees qui se trouvent sous sa souverainete on autorite, le libre exercice de la navigation aux navires et bateaux battant pavilion de Fun quelconque des I'tats contractants.

ARTICLE  4.

Dans 1'exercice de la navigation ci-dessus visee, les ressortissants, les biens et les pavilions de tons les tats contractants seront, sous tons les rapports, traites sur le pied d'une parfaite egalite. Aucune distinction ne sera notamment faite entre les ressortissants, les biens et les pavilions des differents Etats riverains, y compris 1'Etat riverain sous la sonverainete on ]'autorite duquel se trouve la partie -de voie navigable consideree; de meme, aucune distinction no sera faite entre les ressortissants, les biens et les pavilions des Etats riverains et ceux des non-riverains. 11 est enteridu, en consequence, qu'aucun privilege exclusif de navigation ne sera accorde sur lesdites voies navigables a des societes on a des particuliers.

Aticune distinction no pourra etre faite, dans ledit exercice, en raison du point de provenance on de destination, on de la direction des transports.

ARTICLE  5.

Par derogation aux deux articles precedents et sauf convention on .obligation contraire :

1.Tout ]]tat riverain a le droit de reserver a son propre pavilion le transport de voyageurs et de marchandises, charges a an port se trouvant sons sa souverainete on autorite et decharges a un antre port se trouvant egalement sous sa sonverainete on autorite. L'Etat qui no reserve pas a son propre pavilion les transports ci-dessus

specifies pout, neanmoins, a 1'egard d'un co-riverain qui se les reserve, refuser le benefice de ]'egalite de traitement on ce qui con-
,cerne ces dits transports.

Stir les voies navigables, visees a ]'article 2, 1'Acte de navigation ne pourra laisser aux Etats riverains que le droit de reserver les transports locaux de voyageurs et de merchandises indigenes on indigences. Toutefois, dans tons les cas on one liberte plus complete de la navigation aurait deja etc proclamee dans tin Acte de navigation
.anterieur, cette liberte ne sera pas diminuee.

2.Lorsqu'un reseau navigable naturel d'interet international, :ne comprenant pas de voies visees a ]'article 2, ne separe on traverse •que deux Etats, ceux-ci ont le droit de reserver d'un commun accord

15

(b.) -Navigable waterways which may hereafter be placed in this category. either in pursuance of unilateral Acts of the States under whose sovereignty or authority they are situated , or in pursuance of agreements made with the consent, in particular , of such States.

ARTICLE 3.

Subject to the provisions contained in Articles 5 and 17, each of the Contracting States shall accord free exercise of navigation to the vessels flying the flag of any one of the other Contracting States on those parts of navigable waterways specified above which may be situated under its sovereignty or authority.

ARTICLE 4.

In the exercise of navigation referred to above, the nationals, property and flags of all Contracting States shall be treated in all respects on a footing of perfect equality. No distinction shall be made between the nationals, the property and the flags of the different riparian States, including the riparian State exercising sovereignty or authority over the portion of the navigable waterway in question : similarly, no distinction shall be made between the nationals, the property and the flags of riparian and non-riparian States. It is understood, in consequence, that no exclusive right of navigation shall be accorded on such navigable waterways to companies or to private persons.

No distinction shall be made in the said exercise, by reason of the point of departure or of destination, or of the direction of the traffic.

ARTICLE 5.

As an exception to the two preceding Articles, and in the absence of any Convention or obligation to the contrary :

1.A riparian State has the right of reserving for its own flag the transport of passengers and goods loaded at one port situated tinder its sovereignty or authority and unloaded at another port also situated under its sovereignty or authority. A State which does not reserve the above-mentioned transport to its own flag may, nevertheless, refuse the benefit of equality of treatment with regard to such transport to a co-riparian which does reserve it.

On the navigable waterways referred to in Article 2, the Act of Navigation shall only allow to riparian States the right of reserving the local transport of passengers or of goods which are of national origin or are nationalised. In every case, however, in which greater freedom of navigation may have been already established, in a previous Act of Navigation, this freedom shall not be reduced.

2.When a natural system of navigable waterways of inter-national concern which does not include waterways of the kind referred to in Article 2 separates or traverses two States only, the

16

a lour pavilion le transport, des voyageurs et des marchandises, charges a un port de co reseau et decharges a un autre port de ce memo reseau. a moins que ce transport no soit accompli entre 'deux ports qui no se trouvant pass sons la souverainete on 1'autorite d'un meme Etat an cours d'un voyage, sans transbordement sur les terri-toires de You on l'autre des dits )!;tats, comportant on parcours on mer on sur tine voio navigable d'interet international n'appartenant pas an dit reseau.

ARTICLE  6.

Chacun des Htats contractants conserve, sur les voies navigables on parties de voies navigables visees a Particle la' et se trouvant sons so souverainete on autorite, le droit dont it jonit actuelle-ment d'edicter des dispositions et de prondre des mesures necessaires a Is police generale du territoire et a l'appli-cation des lois et reglements concernant lea douanes, la saute

.publique, les precautions contre les maladies des animaux et des veg@taux, 1'emigration on l'immigration et l'importation on 1'exporta-tion des marchandises prohibees; it est entendu que ces dispositions et ces mesures no depassant pas les necessites et appliquees sur un pied de parfaite egalite aux ressortissants, atix biens et aux pavilions de Pun quelconque des hats contractants, y compris l'Etat con-tractant qui les edicte, no devront pas, sans motif valable, entraver le libre exercice do In navigation.

ARTICLE 7.

Sur to parcours, comme a 1'embouchure de voies navigables d'interet international, it no pourra etre perpu de redevances d'aucune espece autres que des redevances ayant le caractere de retributions et destinees exclusivement a eouvrir d'une maniere equitable lea frais d'entretien do IS, navigabilite on d'amelioration de Is voie navigable et de ses acces, on a subvenir a des depenses faites dane l'interet do Is navigation. Ces redevances seront calculees sur ces frais et depenses et Is tarif on sera affiche dans les ports. Elles. seront etablies do maniere a no pas rendre necessaire, sauf soupcon de fraude on de contravention, un examen detaille de la cargaison et de maniere a faciliter, autant que possible, tant par les conditions do leur prelevement quo par les tarifs ens-memes, Is trafic inter-national.

ARTICLE S.

En ce qui concerne les formalites douanieres, Is transit des navires et des bateaux, des voyageurs et des marchandises, sur lea voies navigables d'interet international, s'effectuera dans les con-ditions fixees par le Statut de Barcelona sur la Liberte du Transit. Chaque fois quo le transit aura lieu sans transbordement, lea dis-

positions complementaires ci-apres seront applicables :	-

(a.) Lorsque les deux rives d'une voie navigable d'interet inter-national font partie d'un meme ,tat, les formalites donanieres imposees aux marchandises on transit, apres

17	1027

latter have the right to reserve to their flags by mutual agreement the transport of passengers and goods loaded at one port of this system and unloaded at another port of the same system, unless this transport takes place between two ports which are not situated under the sovereignty or authority of the same State in the course of a voyage, effected without transhipment on the territory of either of the said States, involving a sea-passage or passage over a navigable waterway of international concern which does not belong to the said system.
X	ARTICLE. 6.

Each of the Contracting States maintains its existing right, on the navigable waterways or parts of navigable waterways referred to in Article 1 and situated under its sovereignty or authority, to enact the stipulations and to take the measures necessary for policing the territory and for applying the laws and regulations relating to customs, public health, precautions against. the diseases of animals and plants, emigration or immigration, and to the import or export of prohibited goods, it being understood that such stipulations and measures must he reasonable, must be applied on a footing of absolute equality between the nationals, property and flags of any one of the Contracting States, including the State which is their author, and must not without good reason impede the freedom of navigation.


ARTICLE 7.

No dues of any kind may be levied anywhere on the course or at. the month of a navigable waterway of international concern, other than dries in the nature of payment for services rendered and intended solely to cover in an equitable manner the expenses of. maintaining and improving the navigability of the waterway and its approaches, or to meet expenditure incurred in the interest of navigation. These dues shall be fixed in accordance with such expenses, and the tariff of dues shall be posted in the ports. These dues shall he levied in such a manner as to render unnecessary a detailed examination of the cargo, except in cases of suspected fraud or infringement of regulations, and so as to facilitate international traffic as much as possible, both as regards their rates and the method of their application.

ARTICLE 8,

The transit of vessels and of passengers and goods on navigable waterways of international concern shall, so far as customs formalties are concerned, be governed by the conditions laid down in the Statute of Barcelona on Freedom of Transit. Whenever transit takes place without transhipment the following additional provisions shall be applicable :

(a)When both banks of a waterway of international concern are within one and the same State, the customs formalities imposed on goods in transit after they have been declared
[10526]	c

18

la declaration et tine visits sommaire , se borneront a Is miss sons scelles , sous cadenas on sous Is garde d'agents des douanes;

(b.) Lorsqu'une voie navigable d'interet international forme frontiere entre deux Mats, les navires et bateaux, les voyageurs et les marchandises en transit devront titre, en cours de route , exempts de toute formalite douaniere, sauf Is cas oil , pour des raisons valables d'ordre pratique et sans porter atteinte a la facilite de la navigation , l'accomplisse-ment des formalites douanieres se ferait en oil point de Is partie de la voie navigable formant frontiere.

Le transit des navires on bateaux et des voyageurs , ainsi que le transit des marchandises sans transbordement , stir lea voice navi-gables d'interet international , tie pourront donner lieu a la perception d'aucun des droits qni sont, soit prohibes par le Statut de Barcelone stir la Liberte do Transit , snit autorises par Particle 3 du dit Statut; etant entendu , toutefois , que pourront titre mis a . la charge des navires et bateaux en transit Is logement et Is nourriture des agents des douanes strictement requis pour la surveillance.

ARTICLE 9.

Dana tons les ports situes sun one voie navigable d'interet inter-national et sous le rapport de 1'utilisation do ces ports, lea ressortis-sants, lea biens et les pavilions de tons les tats contraetants joniront, sous reserve des dispositions dos articled 5 et 17, notamment en ce qui concerns lea droits et redevances do ports, d'un traitement egal a celui des ressortissants, des biens et des pavilions de I'Etat riverain sons la sonverainete oil l'autorite duquel le port se trouve. Il est entendu que les biens anxgnels s'applique le present alitula Pont lea biens avant pour origine, provenance on destination Fun quelcongne
des	tats contractants.	-

Les installations des ports situes stir one voie navigable d'interat international et lea facilites offertes daps ceux-ci a la navigation ne pourront titre soustraites a l'usage public que dans tine mesure raisonnable et pleinement compatible aver Is libre exercice de la navigation.

Pour l'applieation des droits de donane on assimiles, des droits d'octroi local et de consummation, comme on ce qui tonche lea frais accessoires, perms a l'occasion de 1'importation on do l'exportation des marchandises par lesdits ports, it ne sera fait aucune difference en raison du pavilion do navire on bateau avant effectue on devant effectuer Is transport, que ce pavilion soit le pavillon national on celui de Fun quelconque des ttats contractants.

L'..1 tat sous la souverainete on l'autorite dugnel nn port se trouve pourra retirer le, benefice de 1'alinea precedent it tort navire on bateau, s'il est prouve que son armateur defavorise systematique-ment les ressortissants de cot ]tat on les societes contr81ees par lesdits ressortissants,

19

and subjected to a summary inspection shall be limited to placing them tinder seal or padlock or in the custody of customs officers.

(h)When a navigable waterway of international concern forms the frontier between two States, vessels, passengers and goods in transit shall while " on route " be exempt from any customs formality, except in cases in which there are valid reasons of a practical character for carrying out customs formalities at a place on the part of the river which forms the frontier, and this can he done without interfering with navigation facilities.

The transit of vessels and passengers, as well as the transit of goods without transhipment, on navigable waterways of international concern, must not give rise to the levying of any duties whatsoever, whether prohibited by the Statute of Barcelona on Freedom of Transit or authorised by Article 3 of that Statute. It is nevertheless understood that vessels in transit may be made responsible for the board and lodging of any customs officers who are strictly required for supervision.

ARTICLE 9.

Subject to the provisions of Articles 5 and 1.7, the nationals, property and flags of all the Contracting States shall, in all ports situated on a navigable waterway of international concern, enjoy, in all that concerns the use of the port, including port dues and charges, a treatment equal to that accorded to the nationals, property and flag of the riparian State tinder whose sovereignty or authority the port is situated. It is understood that the property to which the present paragraph relates is property originating in, coming from or destined for, one or other of the Contracting States.

The equipment of ports situated on a navigable waterway of international concern, and the facilities afforded in these ports to navigation, must not be withheld from public use to an extent beyond what is reasonable and full- compatible with the free exercise of navigation.

In the application of customs or other analogous duties, local octroi or consumption duties, or incidental charges, levied on the occasion of the importation or exportation of goods through the aforesaid ports, no difference shall be made by reason of the flag of the vessel on which the transport has been or is to be accomplished, whether this flag be the national flag or that of any of the Con-tracting States.

The State under whose sovereignty or authority a port is situated mac withdraw the benefits of the preceding paragraph from any vessel if it is proved that the owner of the vessel discriminates systematically against the nationals of that State. including companies controlled by such nationals.

20

A moires do motif exceptionnel justifiant , pour des necessites economiques , une derogation , les droits do douane no pourrontetre superieurs it ceux qui sent perpns aux autres frontieres douanieres de 1'Vtat interesse sur les marchandises de memo nature, de memo provenance et do memo destination . Tortes les facilites qui seraient accordees , par les Mats contractants, sur d ' autres voies de terre on d'eau , on dans d'autres ports pour l'importation et 1'exportation des marchandises , seront egalement concedees it l'importation on it 1'exportation effectuees dans les memes conditions par Is voie navigable et les ports vises ci-dessus.

ARTICLE 10.

1, Tout Mat riverain est tern, d'une part, de s'abstonir do toutes mesures susceptibles de porter atteinte it la navigabilite on de diminuer les facilites de la navigation , et, d'autre part, de prendre le plus rapidement possible toutes dispositions utiles, afin d'-ecarter tous obstacles et dangers accidentels pour la navigation.

2, Si cette navigation oxige un entretion regulier , chacun des Mats riverains a, it cat effet , l'ohligation envers les autres de prendre les mesures et d'executer les travaux necessaires sur son territoire le plus rapidement possible, compte tenu, it toute epoque, de 1'etat de Is navigation , ainsi que de l'etat economique des regions dessorvies par la voie navigable.

Sauf convention contraire , chacun des hats riverains aura le droit , on invoquant des motifs valables. d'exiger des autres riverains une equitable participation aux frais de cot entretien.

S.Sauf motif legitime d'opposition d'un des :Mats riverains, y compris 1'I;tat territorialement interesse , fonde soit sur les condi-tions memos de la navigabilite on son ton-itoire , soit stir d ' autres interAts tels que, entre autres, le maintien du regime normal des eaux, les besoins de l'irrigation , l'utilisation de la force hydraulique on la necessite de la construction d'antres voies de communication plus avantageuses , tin rtatriverain no pourra se refuser it executer, it Is demande d'un autre Etat riverain , les travaux necessaires d'amelioration de Is navigabilite , si celui-ci offre d'en payer les frais, ainsi qu'une part equitable do 1'excedent dos frais d'entretion. Neanmoins , it est entendre que ces travaux no pourrontetre entrepris tant que l'.),tat sur le territoire duquel its doivent titre executes s'y
oppose du chef d ' interets vitaux.	.

4.Sauf convention contraire , l'F'tat tens d'executer les travaux d'entretien pourra se liberer de cette obligation si, avec l'accord de toes les tats co-riverains . un on plusieurs d'entre aux acceptant de les executer it sa place; poor les travaux d'amelioration, l'Etat term de les executer sera libere- de cetto obligation s'il autorise l'Etat demandeur it les executer it sa place; 1'execntion des travaux par des 75tats autres que l'l tat territorialement interesse , ou la participation de cos Ttats aux frais de ces travaux , seront assures sans prejudice, pour 1'Ltat territorialement interesse , de ses droits de contr8le et

21

In the absence of special circumstances justifying an exception on the ground of economic necessities , the customs duties must not be higher than those levied on the other customs frontiers of the State interested , on goods of the same kind , source and destination. All facilities accorded by the Contracting States to the importation or exportation of goods by other land or water routes, or in other ports, shall be equally accorded to importation or exportation under the same conditions over the navigable waterway and through the ports referred to above.

ARTICLE	10.

1. Each riparian State is bound, on the one hand, to refrain from all measures likely to prejudice the navigability of the water-way, or to reduce the facilities for navigation, and on the other hand, to take as rapidly as possible all necessary steps for removing any obstacles and dangers which may occur to navigation.

2. If such navigation necessitates regular upkeep of the water-way, each of the riparian States is bound as towards the others to take such steps and to execute such works on its territory as are necessary for the purpose as quickly as possible, taking account at. all times of the conditions of navigation, as well as of the economic state of the regions served by the navigable waterway.

In the absence of an agreement to the contrary, any riparian State will have the right. on valid reason being shown, to demand from the other riparians a reasonable contribution towards the cost of upkeep.

3. In the absence of legitimate. grounds for opposition by one of the riparian States, including the State territorially interested. based either on the actual conditions of navigability in its territory, or on other interests such as, inter alia. the maintenance of the normal-water conditions, requirements for irrigation, the use of water-power, or the necessity for constructing other and more advantageous ways of communication, a riparian State may not refuse to carry out works necessary for the improvement of the navigability which are asked for by another riparian State, if the latter State offers to pay the cost of the works and a fair share of the additional cost of upkeep. It is understood, however, that such works cannot be undertaken so long as the State on the territory of which they are to be carried out objects on the ground of vital interests.
4. In the absence of any agreement to the contrary, a State
r
which is obliged to carry out works of upkeep is entitled to free itself from the obligation, if, with the consent of all the co-riparian States, one or more of them agree to carry out the works instead of it; as regards works for improvement, a State which is obliged to carry them out shall be freed from the obligation, if it authorises the State which made the request to carry them out instead of it. The carrying out of works by States other than the State territorially interested, or the sharing by such States in the cost of works, shall


[10526]	n

22

d'adutinistration stir ces travaux et des 'prerogatives de sa sou-verainete on autorite sur la vole navigable.


5.Stir les voies navigables viseee a Particle 2, les dispositions du present article sent applicables sous reserve des stipulations' des traites, conventions on acces de navigation qui determinent les
pouvoirs et la responsabilite de 1a Commission internationale a 1'egard des travaux.

Sons reserve des dispositions speciales des dits traites, conven-tions on actes de navigation, existants on a conclu e:

(a.) Les decisions concernant les travaux appartiennent a la Commission;

(b.) Le reglement, dans los conditions prevues a Particle 22 ci-apres. de tout differend' qui surgiraitdu chef de ces decisions pourra, daps tous les cas, titre demande pour motif. d'incompetence oil de violation des conventions inter-nationales regissant les voies navigables. Pour tout autre motif, la requete en vue d'un reglement dans lesdites con-ditions ne pourra titre formee quo par 1'1S,tat territoriale-ment interesse.

Les decisions de la Commission devront titre conformes aux regles du present article.

6.Aonobstant les dispositions du premier paragraphe du present article, an Etat riverain pourra, sauf convention contraire,
desaffecter totalement ou partiellement tine voie navigable.moyen-nant accord de tons les Etats riverains oil de tons les Etats representes a la Commission internationale, daps le -cas des voies navigables visees a Particle 2.

Exceptionnellement, tine voie navigable d'interet international non visee a Particle 2 pourra titre desaffectee pail l'un des tats riverains, si la navigation y est tres pea developpee et si cet Etat justifie d'an inter@t economique manifestentent supeiieur a celui de la navigation. Bans cc cas, la desiffectatioh he pourra avoir lieu qu'au bout d'une annee apres preavis et satif recours d'un autre ttat riverain dans Ies conditions prevues ,it Particle 22. La decision fixera, le cas echeant. les conditions Bans le"squelles la desaffectation pourra titre faite.

7.Thins  les cas  oil  one  void  navigable  d'interet  international

donne
acces a la titer par plusieurs
bras'situes dans
le territoire d'un
t
meme

Etat, les dispositions des paragraphes 1, 2 et 3 du present

article
s'appliquent settlement aux
bras principana
juges necessaires


pour donner.un plein acces a la mer.

ARTICLE  11,.

Dans le, cas on un ou plusieurs des Etats riverains d'une voie navigable d'interet international ne sent pas parties all present

23

be so arranged as not to prejudice the rights of the State territorially interested as regards the supervision and administrative control-over the works, or its sovereignty and authority over the navigable water-way.

5.On the waterways referred to in Article 2, the provisions of the present Article are to be applied subject to the terms of the Treaties, Conventions, or Navigation Acts which determine the powers and responsibilities of the International Commission in respect of works.

Subject to any special provisions in the. said Treaties, Con-ventions, or Navigation Acts, which exist or may be concluded :

(a)Decisions in regard to works will be made by the Commission.

(b)The settlement , under the conditions laid down in Article 22 below , of any dispute which may arise as a result of these decisions , may always be demanded on the grounds that these decisions are ultra wires , or that they infringe international conventions governing navigable waterways. A request for a settlement under the aforesaid conditions based on any other grounds can only be put forward by the State which is territorially interested.

The decisions of this Commission shall be in conformity with the provisions of the present Article.

6.Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Article. a riparian State may, in the absence of any agreement to the contrary, close a waterway wholly or in part to navigation, with the consent of all the riparian States or of all. the States represented on the International Commission in the case of navigable waterways referred to in Article 2.
As an exceptional case one of the riparian States of a navigable waterway of international concern not referred to in Article 2 may close the waterway to navigation , if the navigation on it is of very small importance , and if the State in question can justify its action on the ground of an economic interest clearly greater than that of navigation . In this case the closing to navigation may only take place after a year ' s notice and subject to an appeal on the part of any other riparian State under the conditions laid down in Article 22. If necessary , the judgment shall prescribe the conditions under which the closing to navigation may he carried into effect.

7.Should access to the sea be afforded by a navigable waterway of international interest through several branches , all of which are situated in the territory of one and the same State , the provisions of paragraphs 1. 2 and3 of this Article shall apply only to the principal branches deemed necessary for providing free acces's to the sea.

ARTnm.s 11.

If on a waterway of international concern one or more of the riparian States are not parties to this Statute, the financial
[10526]	D 2

24

Statut, lea obligations finaneieres assumees par chacun des Jttats contractants en vertu de Particle 10 ne peuvent exceder lea obliga-tions qu'ils auraient assumees an cas oh tons les lttats riverains seraient parties an Statut.

ARTICLE  12.

Sauf dispositions contraires d'un accord on traits particulier, notamment des Conventions existantes- relatives aux mesures douanieres, a la police et aux precautions sanitaires, ]'administration des voies navigables d'interet international est exercee par chacun des IFtats riverains sous la souverainete on l'autorite duquel cette voie navigable so trouve. Chacun des dits mats riverains a notam-ment Is pouvoir at est tenu d'edicter Is reglementation de Is naviga-tion stir ladite voie of do veiller a son application; cette reglementa-tion devra titre etablie et appliquee de tells manisre que soit facilite le libre exercice de Is navigation, dans lea conditions prevues an present Statut.

Los rAgles de. procedure touchant notamment Is constatation, la poursuite et la repression des delits de navigation devront tendre a des solutions aussi expeditives que possible.

Toutefois, les Ltats contractants reconnaissent qu'il est haute-ment desirable que lea D'tats riverains s'entendont pour co qui con-corne 1' administration do la.voie navigable et particulierement pour ]'adoption d'une reglementation do Is navigation qui soft aussi uniforms, sur tout Is parcours de cette voie navigable, quo Is permet Is diversite des circonstances locales.

Des services publics monopolises de remorquage on d'aiitres moyens de traction peuvent titre etablis, en vue de faciliter ]'exercice de la navigation, moyennant ]'accord unanime des V tats riverains, on des Etats representes a la Commission internationale daps Is cas des voies navigables visees a Particle 2.

ARTICLE  13.

Les traites, conventions on accords en vigueur conclus par lee Etats contractants en matiere de voies navigables, avant Is date de' raise on vigueur du present Statnt, no sent pas abroges, en ce qui concerns les Mats signataires des dits traites, conventions on accords par Is fait de cette miss en vigueur.

Toutefois, lea f1tats contractants s'engagent a no pas appliquer entre eux celles des dispositions des dits traites, conventions on accords qui seraient opposees aux regles du present Statnt.

ARTICLE  14,

Dans Is cas oil un des accords on traites , particuliers vises a ]'article 12 aurait confie, on confierait cortaines fonctions a une Com-mission internationale, comprenant des representants d'Ltats autres qua lea Etats riverains, cette Commission.devrait s'inspirer exclusive-ment, sous reserve des dispositions de Particle 10, des interets de la navigation et serait consideree comma on des organismes prevus a 1'artiele 24 du Pacts de la Societe des Nations; en consequence, ells

25	10 *sr

obligations undertaken by each of the Contracting States in pursuance of Article 10 shall not exceed those to which they would have been subject if all the riparian States had been Parties.

ARTICLE	12.

In the absence of contrary stipulations contained in a special agreement or treaty, for example, existing Conventions concerning customs and police measures and sanitary precautions, the administration of navigable waterways of international concern is exercised by each of the riparian States under whose sovereignty or authority the navigable waterway is situated. Each of such riparian States has, inter alia, the power and duty of publishing regulations for the navigation of such waterway and of seeing to their execution. These regulations must be framed and applied in such a way as to facilitate the free exercise of navigation under the conditions laid down in this Statute.

The rules of procedure dealing with such matters as ascertaining, prosecuting and punishing navigation offences must be such as to promote as speedy a settlement as possible.

Nevertheless the Contracting States recognise that it is highly desirable that the riparian States should come to an understanding with regard to the administration of the navigable waterway and, in particular, with regard to the adoption of navigation regulations of as uniform a character throughout the whole course of such navigable waterway as the. diversity of local circumstances permits.

Public services of towage or other means of haulage may be established in the form of monopolies for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of navigation, subject to the unanimous agreement of the riparian States or the States represented on the International Commission in the case of navigable waterways referred to in Article 2.

ARTICLE 13.

Treaties, conventions or agreements in force relating to navigable waterways, concluded by the Contracting States before the coming into force of this Statute, are not, as a consequence of its conning into force, abrogated so far as concerns the States signatories !o those treaties.

Nevertheless the Contracting States undertake not to apply among themselves any provisions of such treaties, conventions or agreements which may conflict with the rules of the present Statute

ARTICLE  1 4.

If any of the special agreements or treaties referred to in Article

12 has entrusted or shall hereafter entrust certain functions to an international Commission which includes representatives of States other than the riparian States, it shall be the duty of such Conn-mission subject to the provisions of Article 10, to have exclusive regard to the interests of navigation , and it shall be deemed to be one of the organisations referred to in Article 24 of the Covenant of the

26

echangerait directement avec les organes do la Societe toutes infor-mations utiles et ferait parvenir on rapport annuel a Is Societe.

Les attributions des Commissions prevues a l'alinea precedent seront determinees dans 1'Acte do navigation de chaque voio navi-gable et comporteront an moins les attributions suivantes :
(a.) La Commission aura qualite pour elaborer les reglements as navigation qu'elle jugerait necessaire d'elaborer elle-meme et recevra communication de tons autres reglements de navigation ;

(b.) Elle signalera aux l tats riverains lea travaux utiles pour l'entretien des ouvragos et le maintien de Is navigabilite;

(c.) Elle recevra de chacun des flats riverains communication

officielle de tous projets d'amelioration de Is voie navigable;

(d.) Elle aura qualite, an cas on 1'Acte de navigation no eonipren-drait pas one reglementation speciale quarit a Is perception des redevances, pour approuver Is perception de celles-ci; en appliquant les dispositions de Particle 7 du present Statut.

ARTICLE  15.

Le present Statut no fixe pas les droits et lea devoirs des belli-gerants et des neutres en temps do guerre; neanmoins, it subsisteia on temps de guerre dans la mesure compatible avec ces droits et ces devoirs.

ARTICLE	16.

Le present Statut n'impose a aucun des R tats contractants d'obli-gation qui irait a 1'encontre deses droits et devoirs, en tant que Memhre de la Societe des Nations.

ARTICLE	17.'

Sauf accords contraires auxquels l'l;tat territorialement interesse est on sera partie, Is present Statut no s'applique pas a la navigation des navires et batiments do guerre, de police, de controle nil en general, de toes batiments exercant, a tin titre quelconque, Is puis-sance, publique.

ARTICLE  18.

Chacun des F tats contractants s'engage a ne pas conceder, soit par accord , soit de touts autre maniere , a on ttat non contractant, un traitement , relatif a Is navigation sur are voie navigable d'interet international , qui, antra Plats contractants ,' serait contraire aux 'dispositions du present Statut.

ARTICLE	19.


Il pourra titre exceptionnellement, et pour un terme aussi limite quo possible, deroge aux dispositions des articles precedents par des

27

League of Nations. Consequently, it will exchange all useful information directly with the League and its organisations, and will submit an annual report to the League.
The powers and duties of the Commissions referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be.laid down in the Act of Navigation of each navigable waterway and shall at least include the following

(a)the Commission shall he entitled to draw up such navigation regulations as it thinks necessary itself to draw up. and all other navigation regulations shall be communicated to it:

(h)it shall indicate to the riparian States the action advisable for the upkeep of works and the maintenance of navigability ;

(c)it shall be furnished by each of the riparian States with official information as to all schemes for the improvement of the waterway;
(d)it shall be entitled, in cases in which the Act-of Navigatiwr does not include a special regulation with regard to the levying of dues, to approve of the levying of such dues and charges in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 of this Statute.

ARTICLE 15.

This Statute does not prescribe the rights and duties of belligerents and neutrals in time- of war. The Statute 'shall. however, continue in force in time of war so far as such rights and duties permit.

ARTICLE 1.6.

This Statute does not impose upon a Contracting State any obligation conflicting with its rights and duties as a Member of the League of Nations.

ARTICLE  17.

In the absence of any agreement to the contrary to which the State territorially interested is or may be a party, this Statute has no reference' to the navigation of vessels of war or of vessels performing police or administrative functions, or, in general, exercising any kind of public authority.

ARTICLE 18.

Each of the Contracting States undertakes not to grant either by agreement or in any other way, to a non-Contracting State, treatment with regard to navigation over a navigable waterway of international concern which, as between Contracting States. would be contrary to the provisions of this Statute.

ARTICLE	19.


The measures of a general or particular character which a Contracting State is obliged to' take in case of an emergency

28

mesures particulisres on generales que chacun des ]tats contractants serait oblige. de prendre on cas d'evenexnents graves interessant In sfirete do 1'Etat Cu les interets vitaux du pays, etant entendu que to principe de In liberte de la navigation et specialement is communica-tion entre lea pays riverains et Is trier doivent We maintenus dans toute Is mesure possible.

ARTICLE 20.

Le present Statnt no comporte aucunement Is retrait de facilites plus grandes en vignour accordees on libre exercice de In navigation, sur une voie navigable d'interet international quelconque, dans des conditions compatibles avec Is principe d'egalite prescrit par 1e present Statnt.. on ce qui concerne les ressortissants , lea biers et lea pavilions de tour les Etats contractants. 11 ne comports pas davuntage l'interdiction d'en accorder a l'avenir do semblables.

ARTICLE  21.

Conformement a Particle 23 (e) du Pacte de la Societe des \ations, tout Etat contractant qui pourra invoquer valablement, contre l'application de Info quelconque des dispositions du present Statut. sur tout ou partie de son territoire , tine situation economique grave resultant de devastations commises sur son so] pendant la guerre do 1914-1918 , sera considers comme dispense temporairement des obligations resultant de l'application de ladite disposition, etant entendu quo Is principe de Is liberte de la navigation doit Ctrs observe dans torte la mesure possible.

ARTICLE  22.

Sans prejudice des dispositions de Particle 10, paragraphs 5, et a defaut d'entente directe entre les Etats, tons differends qui surgi-raient ontre oux. relativement a l'interpretation on a 1'application du present Statut, seront portes devant Ia Cour permanents de Justice internationals, a moms quo, par application d'une Convention speciale on d'une clause generals d'arbitrage,il no soit procede a un reglement du differend. soit par arbitrage, snit de , touts autre
a]aniere.	-	-

Le recours sera forme ainsi qu'il eat prevu it Particle 40 du Statut de la Cour permanents de Justice internationals.

Tontefois, afin do regler aufant que possible ces differends a 1'amiable. les r tats contractants s'engagent, prealablement a touts instance judiciaire et sous reserve des droits et attributions du Conseil et de I'Assemblee,. a soumottre ces differends pour avis consultatif a l'organe.qui se trouverait institue par la Societe des Nations comme organs c"orisultatif et technique desMembres de la Societe, on ce qui concerns les Communications et le Transit. En cas d'urgence, un avis provisoire pourra reconimander toutes mesures provisionnelles, destines notamment a rondro a la libro navigation les facilites dont ells jonissait avant l'acte on le fait avant donne lieu an differend.



i'1












































t
29


affecting the safety of the State or the vital interests of the country may, in exceptional cases and for a period as short as possible, involve a deviation from the provisions of the above Articles; it being understood that the principle of the freedom of navigation and especially communication between the riparian States and the sea, must he maintained to the utmost possible extent.

ARTICLE 20.

This Statute does not entail in any way the withdrawal of existing greater facilities granted to the free exercise of navigation on any navigable waterway of international concern, under conditions consistent with the principle of equality laid down in this Statute, as regards the nationals, the goods and the flags of all the Contracting States; nor does it entail the prohibition of such grant of greater facilities in the future.

ARTICLE 21.

In conformity with Article 23 (e) of the Covenant of the League of Nations, any Contracting State which can establish a good case against the application of any provision of this Statute in some or all of its territory on the ground of the grave economic situation arising out of the acts of devastation perpetrated on its soil during the war 1914-1918, shall be deemed to be relieved temporarily of the obligations arising from the application of such provision, it being understood that the principle of freedom of navigation must be observed as far as possible.

ARTICLE  22.

Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 5 of Article 10, any dispute between States as to the intepretation or application of this Statute which is not settled directly between them shall be brought before the Permanent Court of International Justice, unless under a special agreement or a general arbitration provision steps are taken for the settlement of the dispute by arbitration or some other means.

Proceedings are opened in the manner laid down in Article 40 of the Statute of the Permanent Court of International Justice.

In order to settle such disputes , however , in a friendly way as far as possible, the Contracting States undertake before resorting to any judicial proceedings and without prejudice to the powers and right of action of the Council and of the Assembly to submit such disputes for an opinion to any body established by the League of Nations as the advisory and technical organisation of the Members of the League in matters of communications and transit . In urgent eases a preliminary opinion may recommend temporary measures intended in particular to restore the facilities for free navigation which existed before the act or occurrence which gave rise to the dispute.

30

ARTICLE  23.

Tine voie navigable ne sera pas cousideree comme d'interet inter-national, du fait seal qu ' eile traverse on delimits des' zones on enclaves dune etendue et d'une population tres faibles par rapport a celles des territoires traverses et qui ferment des parties detacbees on des etahlissements appartenant a tin->;tat autre que celui sequel ladite riviere appartient , a cette exception pres, dans tout son parconrs navigable.

ARTICLE 24.

Le present Statut us sera pas applicable a tine voie navigable d'interet international ayant dens riverains seulenient et qui separe sur tine grande longueur an :tat contractant d'un Pstat non con-tractant dent le Gouvernemeut n'est pas reconnu par le premier an moment de la signature du present Statut, taut qu'un accord n'aura pas ete conclu entre eux . etablissaot pour ]a voie d'eau cousideree, tin regime adnlinistratif et donanier qui donne a 1'Etat contractant des secnrites eonvenables.

ARTICLE 25.

Il est entendu' que ce Statut no doit pasetre interprets comme reglant on quoi que co soit les droits et obligations inter se de terri-toires faisant partie on places sous la protection d'nn ineme tat souverain, que ces territoires pris individuellement soient on non Membres de la Societe des Nations.



Protocole additionnel a la Convention sur Is Regime des Voies navigables d'Interet international.

Barcelone, le 20 auril 1921.

1.Les Etats signatares de la Convention siir le Regime des Voies navigables d'Interet international, signee a Barcelone.le 20 avril 1921, dent les representants dument autorises.,ont appose leurs signatures an present Protocole, declarent que, en phis de la liberte des communications accordee par eux en vertu de Is Convention sur les Voies navigables considerees comme d'Interet international, ils accordent, sons reserve de reciproeite, sans prejudice de leurs droits de souverainete et en temps , de pail, stir

(a)toutes les voies navigables,

(b)toutes les voies naturellement navigables....

qui, placees sous lour souverainete on autoritd et ri'etant pas con-siderees comme d'interet international, sent accessibles a la naviga-tion cominerciale ordinaire vers et depuis Is mer, ainsi que,dans les ports situes stir ces voies Wean, tine egalite'parfaite 'de traitement au%

31	X051

ARTICLE 23.

A navigable waterway shall not be considered as of international concern on the sole ground that it traverses or delimits zones or enclaves, the extent and population of which are'small as compared with those of the territories which it traverses, and which form detached portions or establishments belonging to a State other than that to which the said river belongs, with this exception, throughout its navigable course.

ARTICLE 24.

This Statute shall not be applicable to a navigable waterway of international concern which has only two riparian States and which separates, for a considerable distance, a Contracting State from a non-Contracting State whose Government is not recognised by the former at the time of the signing of this Statute, until an agree-ment has been concluded between them establishing, for the water. way in question, an administrative and customs regime which affords suitable safeguards to the Contracting State.

ARTICLE 25.

It is understood that this Statute must not be interpreted as regulating in any way rights and obligations inter se of territories forming part, or placed under the protection, of the same sovereign State, whether or not-these territories are individually Members of the League of,Nations.



Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Regime of
Navigable Waterways of International Concern.

Barcelona, April 20, 1921.

1.The States signatories of the Convention on the Regime of Navigable Waterways of International Concern, signed at Barcelona on the 20th April, 1921, whose duly authorised representatives have affixed their signatures to the present Protocol, hereby declare that, in addition to the Freedom of Communications which they have conceded by virtue of the Convention on Navigable - Waterways considered as of international concern, they further concede, on
Icondition of reciprocity, without prejudice to their rights of sovereignty, and in time of peace,

(a)on all navigable waterways,

(b)on all naturally navigable waterways,

Iwhich are placed under their sovereignty or authority, and which, not being considered as of international concern, are accessible to ordinary commercial navigation to and from the sea, and also in all the ports situated on these waterways, perfect equality of treatment

32

pavilions do tout Etat signataire du present Protocols, on ce qui con-cerne lea transports d'importation of d'exportation sans transborde ment,

Lors do In signature, les Etats signataires doivent notifier s'ils acceptant les obligations dans 1'etendue indigase sons la lettre (a) ci-dessus, on seulement dans I'etendue plus restreinte definie sous la lettre (b).

If eat entendu que les Etats avant accepts Is paragraphs (a) no sont lies envers ceux avant accepts Is paragraphs (b) que sons les conditions resultant do ce dernier.
Il est egalernent entendu que les Etats, dent on nombre conside-rable de ports situes sur des voies navigables sent Testes fermes jnsqu'a present au commerce international, peuvent. lots do la signature du present Protocole, exclure do son application nne on plusieurs des voice navigables ci-dessus defines.

. Los Ltats signataires seront fibres do declarer que lent accepta-tion du present Protocols no s'etend pas a I'ensemble on a une partie des colonies, possessions d'outre-mer on protectorats se trouvant sous lour souverainete on autorite. Ces tats pourront done, par is suite, adheror an Protocols separement, an nom dune colonic. dune possession d'outre-mer on d'un protectorat, ainsi exclus dons lour declaration. Its pourront egalement dsnoncer le Protocols. con-formement a ses dispositions, separement an nom dune quelconque des colonies, possessions d'outre-mer on protectorats so trouvant sous four souverainete on autorite.

Le present Protocols sera ratifie. Chaque Puissance adressera sa ratification an Secretaire general de la Societe des Nations, par les 'coins dugnel it on sera donne avis a toutes les autres Puissances signataires. Les ratifications resteront deposees dans-les archives du Secretariat de la Societe des Nations.

Le present Protocols restora ouvert a la signature on adhesion des tats avant signs Is Convention mentionnee ci-dessus on y avant adhere.

11 eutrera on vieour apres reception par Is Secretaire general de la Societe des Nations de la ratification do doux Etats; pourvu, toutefois, qu'a cette epoque ladite Convention soit entree on vig_ueur.
11 pout titre denonce a touts epoque apres 1'oxpiration d'une periode de doux ans, a compter de la date de la reception par Is Secretaire general de la Societe des Nations de is ratification de 1'Etat qui denonce. La denonciation no prendra offet qu'une annee apres sa reception par le Secretaire general de la Societe des Nations. La denonciation de la Convention sur Is Regime des Voies navigables d'Interet international sera consideree comme comprenant la denonciation du present Protocole.


r

33

for the flags of any State signatory of this Protocol as regards the transport of imports and exports without transhipment.

At the time of signing, the signatory States must declare whether they accept the obligation to the full extent indicated under para-graph (a) above, or only to the more limited extent defined by paragraph (b).

It is understood that States which have accepted paragraph (a) are not bound as regards those which have accepted paragraph (b), except tinder the conditions resulting from the latter paragraph.

It is also understood that those States which possess a large number of ports (situated on navigable waterways) which have hitherto remained closed to international commerce, may, at the time of the signing of the present Protocol, exclude from its appli-cation one or more of the navigable waterways referred to above.

The signatory States may declare that their acceptance of the present Protocol does not include any or all of the colonies, overseas possessions or protectorates tinder their sovereignty or authority, and they may subsequently adhere separately on behalf of any colony, overseas possession or protectorate so excluded in their declaration. They may also denounce the Protocol separately in accordance with its provisions, in respect of any colony, overseas possession or protectorate under their sovereignty or authority.

The present Protocol shall be ratified. Each Power shall send its ratification to the Secretary-General of the League of Nations. who shall cause notice of such ratification to be given to all the other signatory Powers; these ratifications shall he deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the League of Nations.

The present Protocol shall remain open for the signature or adherence of the States which have signed the above-mentioned Convention or have given their adherence to it.
It shag. come into force after the Secretary-General of the League of Nations has received the ratification of two States; provided, however, that the said Convention has come into force by that time.

It may be denounced at any time after the expiration of a period of two years dating from the time of the reception by the Secretary-General of the League of Nations of the ratification of the denounc-ing State. The denunciation shall not take effect until one year after it has been received by the Secretary-General of the League of Nations. A denunciation of the Convention on the Regime of
1

Navigable Waterways of International Concern shall be considered as including a denunciation of the present Protocol.

34

Fait a Barcelone, le vingt avril Done at Barcelona, the twen-mil neuf cent vingt et un, en un tieth day of April, nineteen seul esemplaire dent les testes hundred and twenty-one; in a

fraucais et anglais feront foi.	single copy, of which the French and English texts shall be
authentic.	v

a.,
FAN S.NOL I.
t'    ^  1
"^


(^
a
fZs
XAVIER NEUJEAN .
l ^Q ^'7Jyy^J

pE n acce p tant Is parag rap he  (a )1. ,,

ls'MANUEL RIVAS VICTil!A.

A. HOLCK-COLDING.--e^

En'acceptant  is paragraphe  (a).

H. LLEWELLYN SMITH.

In respect of United Kingdom only.
Accepting paragraph  (a).	sj




sc










rJ  +

H. LLEWELLYN SMITH.

In respect of New Zealand.

Accepting paragraph  (a).

E. ORTIJI O.

En acceptant  Is  paragraphs  (a).
ROLF THESLEFF.  F v	b	\/
En acceptant Is  paragraphe , (6).	--\
G. CARADJA	o ^^^

THEO RUSSELL.'	l l7^•'

In respect of 'India	'ly.
Accepting Paragraph (a).

FRIDTJOF	rJ i IN

A. FREIRE ND'ANDRADE	o^Fes(

FREDRIK HANSEN.	C^	V

En  acceptant  Is  paragraphe  (a).


oy dog ^'S, ING. BOHUSLAW MT)LLER.	t"

_ Q	En acceptant le paragraphe  (b).

G2













*M. Theo Russell, Minintrc pleni-potentiairc de Sa Majee18 Britunniyne a Bernn, a etc dAmeut nulorise a signer in Protocols addiuonnel au nom de I'lode .












*Mr. Theo Russell, Minister Pleni-potentiary to His Britannic Majesty in Berne, has been duly authorised to

,sign the Additional Protocol on behalf of India.






I+J






















































l



35



1057









NOTE.




Ratifications depos  ed.




British Empire*   ...
...




vNew Zealand
...
...
A ug0.
2.
1922.E

'India
...
...




Albania


Oct.
18,
1921.`

Bulgaria


July
11,
1922.
.I
Denmark


Nov.
13,
1922

Finland


Jan.
29,
1923.

Italy


Aug.
5,
1922.

Norway


Sept.
4,
1923.



Accessions.




(To the full extent indicated in paragraph (a) of the


Additional Protocol. )


\ r
.,   l
Accessions dated August 2, 1922-
L



' Newfoundland.



- -
. --' Bahamas.






Barbados.







British Guiana.
Jamaica	(including  Turks  and  Caicos  Islands  and
Cayman Islands).
t -Leeward Islands.
,,Trinidad and Tobago.

/Windward Islands ( Grenada, St.. Lucia, St . Vincent). 'Gibraltar.
Malta.
Cyprus.
^Gambta Colony and Protectorate.
Sierra Leone Colony and Protectorate.
Nigeria Colony and Protectorate.	I

'Cold Coast, Ashanti and Northern Territories of the
Gold Coast.
"Kenya Colony and Protectorate.
Uganda Protectorate.

Zanzibar.

,St. Helena.

/Ceylon.

Mauritius.

Seychelles.

Bong Bong.

,yStraits Settlements.

Fiji.

Gilbert and Ellice Islands.

/British Solomon Island.

,Tonga Islands.

•Deemed to apply to Newfoundland but not to Canada, South Africa or

Australia.

:16

(To the full extent indicated in paragraph (a) of the
Additional Protocol.)
^l	Accessions dated September 2, 1923-

Federated	Malay	States	and	Unfederated	Malay

/ States.

(To the limited extent defined by paragraph (b) of the)

Additional Protocol.)

Accessions dated August 2, 1922<

L.^	Nyasaland rectorate and Tanga nyika Territory.
4,


Foreign Office, September 1923.