
CONVENTION

FOR  THE

REGULATION  OF  AERIAL NAVIGATION.

Paris, October 13, 1919.



AMENDMENTS OF ANNEXES (A), (C), (D) AND (E).

[In continuation of Treaty Series No. 2 of 1922

(Cmd. 1609) and No. 11 of 1922 (CIDd. 1741).]


Presented to I'arliantent by Command of His Majesty.


















LONDON:

PRINTED & PUBLISHED BY 1178 MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE

To be purchased through any Bookseller or directly from N .M. STATIONERY OFFICE at the following addresses :  Imperial  House, Kingsway ,  London, W.C.2, and 28 Abingdon Street,  London, S.W.1;  York Street, Manchester;

1St. Andrew' s Crescent , Cardiff;  or

120 George Street, Edinburgh.

1923

Price 2d. Net,


Cmd. 1916.

Convention for the Regulation of. Aerial  Navigation.

Paris, October 13, 1919.


Amendments of Annexes (A), (C), (D) and (E)

adopted at the 1st and 2nd Sessions of the International  Commission for Air Navigation, Paris, Daly .11-28, 1922, and  London,  October, 25-27, 1,922,
AMENDMENTS.	AMENDMENTS,

Page 28,* Annex (A), Section I-	Page 29,* Annex (A), Section I--
The following paragraph should	The following paragraph should
he inserted at the end of (a) :-	be inserted at the end of (a)-


Toutefois, tout aeronef, fabri-que daus un Etat contractint pour etre Iivr6 par In voie des airs bun ressortissant d'un Etat non Partie contractaute, dint les marques de nationalit6 et d'inuuatriculatiou n'auront pas 6t6 notifidespar la Commission internationale de Navigation a6rienneauxEtatscontractants, devra titre provisoirement fin-matriculd dans l'Etat on it a dt6 fabriqu6, La marque de na-tionalit6 sera Belle de cet Etat. Le groupe d'immatriculation sera constitud par un W suivi de trois chiffres.

However, any aircraft, mann-factured in a contracting State, shall, for delivery by air to a national of a non-contracting State, of which the nationality and registration marks shall not have been notified by the International Commission for Air Navigation to the con-tracting State, be provisionally registered in the State in which

it manufactured. The na-tionality mark shall be that of the latter State. The registra-tion mark shall consist of a W followed by three figures.

Page 38, Annex (C), Seetiou V-	Page 39, Annex (C), Section V-
New Text-
New Text-
Fornie,6tablissementettenue
Form, arrangement and me-
des livres de bord.
thod of keeping log books.

Les divers livres de bord, prescrits par la Convention, pourront titre rdunis en un seul. Le modele de ce on do ces livres de bord, les regles concernant leer dtablissemeut et leur tenue seront fixes on modifies par la Commission internationale de Navigation a6r-ieune a la ma - jorit6 pr6vue par l'Article 34 pour In modification des An-nixes.

The various log books pre-scribed by the Convention may be combined in a single book. The model of the said log book or books, the rules governing their arrangement and the method of keeping them shall be fixed or modified by the International Commission for Air Navigation by the ma-jority provided for in Article 34 for the modification of the Annexes.


The pages mentioned refer to pages in "Treaty Series No . 2 (1922)," [Cmd. 16091.

[10132]












































A
Page	46, Annex (U), para-graph 14-

New Text--

(a.) Uri aeronef desirant at-terrir la unit, stir un aerodrome dotd d'un personnel de garde, devra, avant de le faire, firer une fusee pyrotechnique verte on faire des signaux intermit-tents avec une lampe verte. En outre, a l'aide du Code international Morse, it devra reprodnirri. Is groupe de lettres formant son signal d'appel.

(b)La permission d'atterrir lui sera donnee, de terre, par la repetition du m6me signal d'appel suivi d'une fusee pyro-technique veite oil de signaux intermittents faits avec une lampe verte.

Page	46, Annex (1)), para-graph 15-

New Text-

Une fusee pyrotechnique rouge tiree de terre on un feu rouge etincelant a terre, signi-fiera qu'aucun aeronef no dolt atterrir.

Page	46, Annex (1)), para-graph 16-

New Text-

Uri aeronef oblige d'atterrir la nuit devra, avant de le faire, lancer tine fusee pyrotechnique

.rouge, on faire avec sea feux de navigation tine serie dosignacx courts et intermittents.

Page	46, Annex (D), para-graph 17-

New Text-

(e.) Un signal forme d'une succession de fusdes blanches pyrotechniques, tirees a courts intervalles.
Page	47, Annex (U), para-graph 14-


New Text-

. (a.) An aircraft wishing to land at night on an aerodrome having a ground control shall, before landing, fire a green pyrotechnical light or flash it green lamp intermittently. In addition, it shall make by Inter-national Morse Code the letter group forming its call sign.

(b.) Permission to land will be given by the same call sign from the ground, followed by a green pyrotechnical light, or flashing a green lamp intermit-tently.


Page	47, Annex (D), para-graph 15-

New Tezt-

The firing of a red pyrotech-nical light or the display of a red flare flour the ground ,,hall be taken as an instruction that aircraft are not to land.

Page	47, Annex (1)), para-graph 16-

New Tcit-

Au aircraft compelled to land at night shall, before landing, fire a red pyrotechnical light or make a series of short and inter-mittent flashes with its naviga-tion lights.

Page	47, Annex (1)), para-graph 17-

New Text-

(e)A signal, consisting of a succession of white pyrotech-nical lights fired at short in-tervals.


1539	Wt, -	1750	7/23	F.O.P.	[10132]	B  2


Page	48,	Annex	(D),	para-	Page	49,	Annex	(D),	Para
graph 19-
graph 19-
New Text-
New Text-
r


(b.)) La nuit: trois projectiles, lancets a dix secondes d'inter-yalle et dent les eclatements -produiront des feux on dtoiles vertes.

Page	52, Annex - (D), para-graph 36-

New Text-

Dans chaque aerodrome, tout adronef voulant y atterrir on en partir et se trouvant dans l'obligation de faire tin virage, devra,, said en cas de detresse, 1'effectuer h gauche, e'est-a-dire daps Is seas contraire du mouvenaeut des aiguilles.d'une montre.

(b.) By night : three dis-charges, at intervals of. ten seconds, of a projectile showing on bursting green stars or lights.

Page	53, Annex (D), -para-graph 36-'

New Text-  .'	.

. At every aerodrome if. an aircraft about. to land or leave finds it necessary to make a circuit or partial "circuit, such circuit or partial, circuit shall, except in ease of distress, be left=handed (anti-clockwise).


Page	54, Annex (1)), para. graph 46- -

New Text-

Les  regles  ci-dessus  s'appli-

queront  dgalenient	aux	atter-

rissages de twit stir les aero-dromes des feux seront alors

disposes sur 1'a6rodrome comme suit:

Page	55, Annex (D), para-graph 46-

New Text-

The above rules shall apply equally to eight landings on aerodromes, when lights shall be placed on the acrodroanes as follows


(a.) La zone de droite sera -indiqude par des lumieres blanches disposdes de inaniere a former on "L" renverse', on tine potence ; la zone do gauche sera marquee de In m&me fagon. Les deux potences seront placees dos a dos et de mani6re que les longues branches inarquent les limites de Is zone neutre. Les atterrissages se, ferout in-variablement daps la direction _de la longue branche et en marchant vers le petit bras. Le feu place a 1'extremite du long jambage doit--occuperle point le plus rapproche du p6rim6tre sur.lequel tin avion -peat atterrir saws clanger. Les

(a.) The right - hand zone will be marked by white lights' placed in the position of an "L," and the left-hand zone will be similarly marked. The "L's" shall be back to back, that is to say, the long sides of the "L's" will indicate the borders of the neutral zone, the direction of the landing shall invariably be along the long arm of the "L" and to-wards the short arm.' The, lights of the "L's" should be so placed that the lights in-dicating the top extremity of tlae;:long arni shall_;K.. the nearest point on the aere.'.roaie upon which. an aeroplane Lean

feux jalou nant les petits bras marqueront I'autru limite du terrain oil l'atterrissage petit se faire en toute sdcurite'. L'avion, par suite, no devra pas ddpasser le petit cote do Ia potence (voir crognis A).

Page 66, Annex (E), Section V, paragraph 1-

New .'Text-

Pour obteni r into licence, suit comme pilote,soit commeolficier navigateur, soft couture mecatii-cien, suit comme unembre (hn personnel tie conduite d'uu adronef affectd aux transports publics, tout candidat devra so presenter, pour subir tin examen, devant les mddecins spdcialentent ddsigties on auto-rises a cet diet par 1'h.tat con-tractant dont it reldve.

page 68, Annex (E), Section V, paragraph 2-

New Text-

(b.) Les pilotes et lcs olficiers navigateurs af]'ect6s a tin trans-port public no pourront eutrer en fonetions ni avant dix-neuf anus ni apres quarante-cinq this.

Page 68, Annex (E), Section V, paragraph 3-

New Text-

Chacun des Mats contrac-tants doit provisoirement fixer ses propres mdthodes d'examen, jtisqu'a cc (1110 les details et lea conditions minima des tests a employer soient arr@t6s par tine decision de la Commission internationale de Navigation adrienne adoptde a la majority prdvue par I'Article 34 pour toute modification aux dispo-sitions des Annexes. Ces d6-tails et conditions minima pourront ti tre modifids par la
safely touch ground.  The lights indicating the short arm of the L" should indicate the limit of safe landing ground for the aeroplanes ,  that  is,  that  the aeroplane  should  not  overrun the short arm (see diagram A).


Inge 67, Annex (E), Section V, paragraph 1-

New Text-

Every candidate before ob-taining a licence as a pilot, navigator, engineer, or member of the operating crew of air-craft engaged in public trans-port will present himself for examination by specially quali-fied medical wren ( flight sur-geons ), appointed by or acting under the authority of the con-tracting State.


Page 69, Annex (F), Section V, paragraph 2-

New Text-

(b.) Pilots and navigators of aircraft engaged in public transport may not enter upon their duties before 19 or after 45 years of age.

Page 69 , Annex (E), Section V, paragraph 3-

New Text-

Each contracting State shall provisionally fix its own me-thods of examination , until the details and the minimal con-ditions of the tests shall have been settled by a decision of the International Commission for Air Navigation adopted by the majority provided for in Article 34 for modifications of the provisions of the Annexes. Such details and minimal con-ditions may be modified by the International Commission for


Commission internationale de Navigation aerienne a la id@me majoritd.

Page 70, Annex ( E), Section V, paragraph 6-

New Text-

Tout aviateur ou adronatite brevete avant le 1- janvier 1919 et en service a la date du 1e' juillet 1922 dans une coni-'pagnie de transports publics, petit etre maintenu wails Is personnel naviguart aiissi longtemps que ' 'se's 4ualites physiques. coistatees lots du dernier examen medical se inaintiennent, a iuoitis' ga'on ne dEcodvre maid tare patho-logique susceptible do deter-miner un accident subit.
Air- Navigation	by	the  same

majority.


Page 71, Annex ( E), Section V, paragraph 6-

New Text-

Any aeronaut certificated before the 1st January, 1919, and serving on the 1st July, 1922 , in a public transport company , maybe retained in the navigating personnel so long as his physical capacities as ascertained at his last medi-cal examination are maintained, uidess there be ' detected a pathological defect capable of causing a sudden accident.