No. 345. TREATY3 OF BROTHERHOOD AND ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE KINGDOM OF IRAQ AND THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF TRANSJORDAN. SIGNED AT BAGHDAD, ON 14 APRIL 1947 IN THE NAME OF GOD THE MERCIFUL, THE COMPASSIONATE His MAJESTY THE KING OF IRAQ AND HIS MAJESTY THE KING OF THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF TRANSJORDAN, In view of the ties of brotherhood and racial unity which unite them; desirous of safeguarding the integrity of their territories; and having regard to the necessity which they feel for closer mutual co-operation and full understanding in regard to matters affecting the interest of their kingdoms; and in execution of the provisions of Article 9 of the Pact of the League of Arab States; Have agreed to conclude a Treaty of Brotherhood and Alliance, and for this purpose have appointed as their Plenipotentiaries: His Majesty the King of Iraq: His Excellency Dr. MOHAMMED FADHIL JAMALI, Minister for Foreign Affairs. His Majesty the King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Transjordan: His Excellency SAMIR PASHA AL-RIFA'I, Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs. Who having reciprocally communicated their full powers found in due form, have entered into an Alliance and have concluded the following Treaty:- Article 1 There shall prevail relations of permanent brotherhood and alliance between the Kingdom of Iraq and the :Hashemite Kingdom of Transjordan. The two High Contracting Parties shall consult together when necessary with a view to furthering the objects set forth in the Preamble to this Treaty. Translation by the Government of Iraq. 'Traduction du Gouvernement de l'Irak. 'Came into force on 10 June 1947, upon the exchange of the instruments of ratification at Baghdad, in accordance with Article 11. 1948-1949 Nations Unies - Recuei des Traites 155 TRADUCTION - TRANSLATION N0 345. TRAITE' DE FRATERNITE ET D'ALLIANCE ENTRE LE ROYAUME D'IRAK ET LE ROYAUME HACHEMITE DE TRANSJORDANIE. SIGNE A BAGDAD, LE 14 AVRIL 1947 Au NOM D'ALLAH, LE CLE'MENT, LE MISRICORDIEUX, SA MAJESTt LE RoI D'IRAK ET SA MAJESTE LE ROI DU ROYAUME HACHEMITE DE TRANSJORDANIE, Prenant en consideration les liens de fraternit6 et l'unit6 raciale qui les unissent et d~sireux de prot~ger l'int~grit6 de leurs territoires, et considrant la n~cessit6 d'une cooperation plus 6troite entre eux et d'une entente parfaite dans toutes les questions qui touchent aux int&ts de leurs royaumes, et appliquant les dispositions de l'article 9 du Pacte de la Ligue des Etats arabes, Sont convenus de conclure un trait6 de fraternit6 et d'alliance et ont, ' cet effet, d6sign6 comme leurs pl~nipotentiaires: Sa Majeste le Roi d'Irak: Son Excellence MOHAMMED FADHIL JAMALI, Ministre des affaires ftrangtres. Sa Majeste le Roi du Royaume hachdmite de Transjordanie: Son Excellence SAMIR PACHA AL-RIFA'I, PrEsident du Conseil et Ministre des affaires 6trangres. Lesquels, apr~s s'8tre communique leurs pleins pouvoirs et les avoir trouv~s en bonne et due forme, ont form6 une alliance et conclu le trait6 ci-apr~s: Article premier I1 rdgnera perpetuellement entre le Royaume d'Irak et le Royaume hachdmite de Transjordanie des relations de fraternit6 et d'alliance. Les Hautes Parties contractantes se consulteront, quand il y aura lieu, en vue d'atteindre les objectifs 6nonc6s au pr6ambule du prsent trait6. Entr6 en vigueur le 10 juin 1947, par 1'6change des instruments de ratification A Bagdad, conformdment & 'article 11. 156 United Nations - Treaty Series 1948-1949 Article 2 Each of the High Contracting Parties reciprocally undertakes not to enter with any third party into any understanding or agreement over any matter whatever of a nature prejudicial to the interests of the other High Contracting Party or to his country or its interests, or of a nature calculated to expose to danger or harm the safety or interests of his country. Article 3 The High Contracting Parties undertake to settle any disputes arising between them. by means of friendly negotiations. Article 4 Should any dispute between either High Contracting Party and a third State produce a situation involving a threat of war, in that case the High Contracting Parties shall jointly endeavour to settle such dispute by peaceful means in accordance with such international understandings as may be applicable to the case. Article 5 (a) In the event of an act of aggression being committed against either High Contracting Party by a third State notwithstanding efforts exerted in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 above; and similarly in the event of the occurrence of a sudden act of aggression which does not leave time for the application of the provisions of Article 4 referred to above, the High Contracting Parties shall consult together regarding the measures which shall be taken with the object of concerting their efforts in a manner to repel the said aggression. (b) The.following shall be deemed acts of aggression: (1) The declaration of war. (2) The seizure by an armed force of a third State, of territory belonging to either High Contracting Party even without a declaration of war. (3) An attack on the territory, land, naval or air forces of either High Contracting Party by the land, naval or air forces of a third State, even without a declaration of war. (4) Direct or indirect support or assistance to the aggressor. No. 345 1948-1949 Nations Unies - Recueil des Traitis 157 Article 2 Chacune des Hautes Parties contractantes prend 1'engagement r6ciproque de ne conclure avec une tierce partie aucun arrangement ou accord qui porte prejudice aux inter~ts de l'autre Haute Partie contractante ou t son royaume ou aux int~erts de ce royaume ou qui mette en danger ou compromette la scurit6 ou les int~r&s de son royaume. Article 3 Les Hautes Parties contractantes s'engagent . r6gler par des n~gociations amicales tous les diff6rends qui pourraient surgir entre elles. Article 4 Si un diffrend entre l'une des Hautes Parties contractantes et un Etat tiers vient t crier une situation qui comporte un danger de guerre, les Hautes Parties contractantes uniront leurs efforts pour regler ce diffrend par des moyens pacifiques, conformement aux arrangements internationaux qui pourront se trouver applicables dans le cas. Article 5 a) Si un Etat tiers vient ! commettre un acte d'agression contre l'une des Hautes Parties contractantes malgr6 les efforts d~ploy~s conform6ment aux dispositions de l'article precedent et de meme dans le cas d'un acte d'agression inattendu ne laissant pas le temps d'appliquer les dispositions de cet article, les Hautes Parties contractantes seront tenues de se consulter sur la nature des mesures qu'elles doivent prendre pour unir leurs efforts de fagon r~pondre AL cette agression et t la repousser. b) Seront consid&6s comme actes d'agression: 1) La dclaration de guerre; 2) L'occupation par les forces armies d'un Etat, meme sans dclaration de guerre, d'un territoire appartenant it l'une des Hautes Parties contractantes; 3) Une attaque effectue par les forces armies de terre, de mer ou de l'air d'un Etat tiers, meme sans declaration de guerre, contre le territoire ou les forces armies de terre, de mer ou de Fair de l'une des Hautes Parties contractantes; 4) L'aide ou l'assistance directe ou indirecte prt&te A l'agresseur. No 345 158 United Nations -Treaty Series 1948-1949 (c) The following shall not be deemed acts of aggression: (1) The exercise of the right of legitimate defence, i.e., resisting any act of aggression as defined above. (2) Actions taken to implement the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. Article 6 In the event of the outbreak of disturbances or disorders in the territory of one of the High Contracting Parties each of them undertakes reciprocally as follows: - (a) To take all possible measures or actions: (1) To make it impossible for the insurgents to utilise his territory against the interests of the other High Contracting Party; and (2) To prevent his subjects from taking part in the disturbances or disorders or from helping or encouraging the insurgents; and (3) To prevent any kind of help being given to the insurgents either directly from his own territory or otherwise. (b) In the event of insurgents from the territory of one of the High Contracting Parties taking refuge in the territory of the other High Contracting Party, the latter shall disarm them and hand them over to the other Party. (c) If circumstances should necessitate the adoption of joint measures or actions to suppress disturbances or disorders, the two High Contracting Parties shall consult with each other concerning the policy of co-operation which shall be followed for this purpose. Article 7 The two High Contracting Parties will co-operate with a view to unifying the military systems of their two countries by means of the exchange of military missions to study the systems followed in their respective countries and to seek to obtain reciprocal benefit from their respective military institutions and the training and instruction which is available in them. Article 8 The Diplomatic and Consular Representatives of either High Contracting Party may if requested undertake the representation of the interests of the other High Contracting Party in foreign countries where such other Party has no No. 345 1948-1949 Nations Unies - Recuei des Traite's 159 c) Ne seront pas consider&s comme actes d'agression: 1) L'exercice du droit de legitime defense, c'est-,-dire le fait de r6sister a un acte d'agression repondant la definition prec~dente; 2) Les mesures prises pour appliquer les dispositions de la Charte des Nations Unies. Article 6 Chacune des Hautes Parties contractantes prend l'engagement reciproque, au cas o~i il claterait des troubles ou des d6sordres dans le territoire de l'une d'entre elles: a) De prendre toutes les dfcisions et mesures en son pouvoir: 1) Pour ne pas permettre aux insurg~s de se servir de son territoire pour nuire aux int6rets de l'autre Haute Partie contractante; et 2) Pour empecher ses sujets de prendre part aux troubles ou aux dsordres ou de favoriser et d'aider les insurg~s; et 3) Pour empecher qu'aucune aide, directe ou indirecte, ne parvienne de son territoire aux insurg6s. b) Si des insurg6s venus du territoire de I'autre Haute Partie contractante ont cherche refuge sur son territoire, de les d~sarmer et de les livrer 2 'autre Haute Partie contractante. c) Si les circonstances exigent l'adoption de d~eisions ou de mesures concertees en vue de mettre fin aux troubles ou aux dsordres, de consulter l'autre Haute Partie contractante sur les m~thodes de coopfration que les deux Hautes Parties contractantes doivent adopter ' cette fin. Article 7 Les Hautes Parties contractantes s'aideront mutuellement : unifier leurs mfthodes militaires respectives par l'6change de missions militaires charg'es d'&tudier les mfthodes suivies dans les deux royaumes et de c 160 United Nations - Treaty Series 1948-1949 representatives, provided that this shall not in any way affect the freedom of such other Party to appoint separate representatives of his own should he so desire. Article 9 There shall be appointed permanent special commissions with executive powers comprising representatives of the two countries. It shall be their duty to achieve actual co-operation between the two High Contracting Parties in all matters stipulated in Article 2 of the Pact of the League of Arab States and also to carry out the requirements of Articles 5, 6, and 7 of the present Treaty. Article 10 There is nothing in the present Treaty to prejudice the rights and duties arising from Treaties to which either High Contracting Party may be bound with any other State. Article 11 This Treaty shall come into force from the date of the exchange of ratifications. Article 12 The present Treaty shall remain in force for a period of ten years from the date of its coming into force and it shall be deemed to have been renewed for further periods of five years each, unless notice- of desire to terminate it shall have been given by either High Contracting Party to the other one year prior to the date of expiry of its period. Each of the High Contracting Parties may, upon the expiry of the first period or any subsequent period of the periods of renewal, ask for reconsideration and revision of this Treaty with a view to augmenting the co-operation and strengthening the alliance to an extent greater than is provided for therein. IN wrrITNESS WHEREOF the above-mentioned plenipotentiaries have signed the present Treaty and have affixed thereto their seals. MADE at Baghdad in duplicate, in Arabic, on the 22nd day of Jamadi al Awal, 1366, corresponding to the 14th day of April, 1947. (Signed) MOHAMMED FADHIL JAMALI (Signed) SAMIR AL-RIFA'I No. 345 1948-1949 Nations Unies - Recuei des Traits 161 repr6sent6e, 6tant entendu que cette possibilit6 ne restreint en aucune fagon Ia libert6 de l'autre Haute Partie contractante de designer de son cot ses propres reprsentants si elle le d6sire. Article 9 Des commissions sp~ciales permanentes, compos~es de repr~sentants des deux pays, seront cr~6es et dot~es de pouvoirs d'excution. Elles auront pour tAche de r~aliser une cooperacion effective entre les Hautes Parties contractantes dans toutes les questions spcifi~es l'article 2 du Pacte de la Ligue des Etats arabes et elles devront en outre assurer l'ex~cution des obligations pr~vues aux articles 5, 6 et 7 du present trait6. Article 10 Aucune disposition du present trait6 ne porte atteinte aux droits et aux obligations d~coulant des trait~s qui lient l'une ou 'autre des Hautes Parties contractantes avec un autre Etat. Article 11 Le present trait6 entrera en vigueur la date de l'6change des ratifications. Article 12 Le present trait6 demeurera en vigueur pendant dix ans b compter de la date de son entree en vigueur et il sera renouvel6 par tacite reconduction pour de nouvelles p~riodes de cinq ans chacune, moins que l'une des Hautes Parties contractantes ne fasse part l'autre Partie, un an avant la date d'expiration de l'une de ces pfriodes, de son intention de mettre fin au trait6. Chacune des Hautes Parties contractantes pourra, l'expiration de la premiere priode ou de toute autre priode ult~rieure, demander un nouvel examen et une revision du present trait6 en vue de dfvelopper la coop6ration et de renforcer l'alliance plus encore qu'il n'est prfvu par les dispositions actuelles de ce trait6. EN FOI DE Quoi, les pl~nipotentiaires nomm~s plus haut ont sign6 le prsent trait6 et y ont appose leurs sceaux. FArr a Bagdad, en double exemplaire, en langue arabe, le 22 Joumada I 1366, correspondant au 14 avril 1947. (Signi) MOHAMMED FADHL JAMALI (Signd) SAMIR AL-RIFA'I